



                         ASTEROID CITY




INT. TELEVISION STUDIO. EVENING

Black and white.

A 1950's-era broadcast soundstage. Cameras on pneumatic
pedestals. Microphones on telescoping booms. A team of
technicians encircling the studio floor. The lights come up on
our host, Brylcreemed in a dark suit and necktie. He addresses
the audience:

                    HOST
          Tonight's program takes us backstage to
          witness first-hand the creation, start to
          finish, of a new play mounted on the
          American stage.

The lights change to reveal the "theatre district" of a
miniature metropolis: skyscrapers, streetlights, a canyon of box-
office marquees.

                    HOST
          "Asteroid City" does not exist. It is an
          imaginary drama created expressly for
          this broadcast. The characters are
          fictional, the text hypothetical, the
          events an apocryphal fabrication -- but
          together they present an authentic
          account of the inner-workings of a modern
          theatrical production.

The metropolis splits in two, sliding open like a curtain as the
host continues:

                    HOST
          Our story begins, of course, with an ink
          ribbon.

Revealed behind the moving scenery: a man (middle-aged, balding,
in a cowboy/western-style dressing gown with embroidered lassos
and bedroom slippers with jingling decorative spurs) hunts and
pecks at a typewriter.

                    HOST
          Conrad Earp, playwright, native of upper
          Wyoming. Well-known for his romantic/
          poetic tapestries of life west of the
          Rocky Mountains.

The playwright sips at a highball then continues to type at some
length before the host finally interjects:

                    HOST
          There is little amusement to be had,
          however, in watching a man type. Skip
                    (more)
                                                           2.

                    HOST (cont'd)
          ahead, then, past the lonely, agonized
          months of composing, revising, polishing,
          editing, rewriting, cutting, pasting,
          pacing, doodling, and solitary drinking --

The lights change again to reveal a full-scale, intricately
decorated theatre proscenium with curtains, footlights, and a
constellation of chalk-arrows and tape-marks zig-zagging across
the boards. Stagehands criss-cross carrying sofas and tables,
raising and lowering sandbags, removing the playwright's
typewriter and chair, etc.

                    HOST
          -- and join our company as they take the
          stage for their first read-through
          rehearsal. Location: the Tarkington
          Theatre, 345 South Northwest Avenue.

The host exits. The stagehands clear the floor and wait. The
room falls quiet. The playwright, center-stage, now holds in his
hands the manuscript for his completed play. He looks to the
audience; he looks to the wings; he clears his throat; he begins
to read:

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          Curtain rises on a desert bus-stop
          halfway between Parched Gulch and Arid
          Plains.

The playwright gestures to various as-yet-unconstructed scenic
elements and installations.

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          Main scenography includes: a twelve-stool
          luncheonette, a one-pump filling station,
          and a ten-cabin motor-court hotel.

In the nearby wings: stagehands listen next to racks of ropes
and pulleys; electricians listen next to rows of sockets and
fuses; a property master silently inventories his kit.

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          Up-stage left: the Tomahawk Mountains
          (highest peak: 11,000 feet). Up-stage
          right: an unfinished highway overpass
          which vaults up twenty feet then chops
          off mid-air behind a permanent road-
          block. Down-front: an impact crater a
          hundred feet in depth and diameter
          encircled by a low Little League-variety
          chainlink fence. Off-stage, distant: a
          650-car freight train which click-clacks
          by at five miles an hour. Note to chief
          electrician:
                                                              3.


Up above: a stagehand on a catwalk listens as he operates a
spot.

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          The light of the desert sun is neither
          warm nor cool, but always clean -- and,
          above all: unforgiving.

The playwright introduces the players, an assembly of
professional actors and actresses, not in costume/not in
character, several in their early teens. They periodically flip
the pages of their dog-eared scripts, pencilling notes.

First: a handsome, compact actor, T-shirt with sweater tied
around the waist, brush-cut hairdo, in a folding chair turned
backwards; a reedy boy fidgeting beside him.

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          Cast: Augie Steenbeck, war photographer,
          early forties. His son, Woodrow, fourteen
          (also known as "Brainiac").

Next: a brunette actress in discreet, precise make-up, hands in
lap, seated bolt upright in a pencil-skirt and tailored jacket;
a bobby-soxer filing her nails beside her.

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          Midge Campbell, late-thirties, film
          actress. Her daughter, Dinah, fifteen.

Next: a blowsy/smudged actress with an unsuccessful permanent; a
former professional quarterback.

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          June Douglas, schoolteacher. Grif Gibson,
          five-star-general.

Next: an actor in a cardigan sweater; an actor in a sailor's
peacoat; an actress in a woolen cap; more teenagers (among them
a short-haired gamine in black turtleneck, tights, and leotard).

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          J.J. Kellogg, Roger Cho, Sandy Borden;
          Clifford, Ricky, Shelly.

Finally: a man-about-town in last night's dinner jacket,
overcoat, and patent-leather shoes. He sits with his legs
crossed, at ease.

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          Stanley Zak, sixty-five, retired.

The lights dim once more. The playwright pauses before he
concludes with reserved drama:
                                                           4.


                    PLAYWRIGHT
          The action of the play takes place in
          September of 1955. Act I. Friday morning,
          7am. Act II. The next day. Act III. One
          week later.

Lights fade to black. Silence.

TITLE SEQUENCE:

Widescreen/color.

A super-extended freight train rolls along rusty tracks, curving
through canyons and mesas, chugging over trusses and trestles.
The engineer leans from a locomotive window, pulling his
whistle. A pilotman rides seated on the caboose platform with
his feet on an iron step-stool. The brakeman squats perched on
the roof of a boxcar, rolling a cigarette.

Cargo: stacked Pontiacs; white gravel; horses and cattle;
avocados, pecans, grapefruits, almonds, artichokes; a tractor
and a bulldozer; a tank wagon of raw milk; and a short-range
ballistic missile labeled:

                  10 Megaton Nuclear Warhead
                  Caution: DO NOT DETONATE
                  without Presidential Approval

EXT. HIGHWAY. DAY

A warning bell rings at a railroad crossing.

The train slowly rattles over a blacktop interstate which
descends, sidewinding, from a distant plateau down to a concise
desert town circumvented by towering cactus, yucca, and
sagebrush. Dry winds blow red dust and tangled scrub. A
roadrunner darts and sprints. In the remote background: a range
of faraway mountains encircling the vast, sandy arena. In the
close foreground: a decorative covered-wagon roadside sign which
reads "Asteroid City, Pop. 87" in carved orange letters.

The town itself: a cafï¿½, a motel, a gas station. A parked
Chrysler sedan, a Ford with a running board. White, wooden,
ranch-style fencing punctuated by telephone poles, electric
wires, and palm trees in tight clusters. A few barns and
bungalows dot the outskirts, along with a billboard advertising
an Indian reservation casino 250 miles ahead.

On the edge of the town: the ruins of the uncompleted/chopped-
off elevated highway-spur with an official roadblock warning:

                  Route-Calculations Error
                  RAMP CLOSED INDEFINITELY
                  Department of Roads and Rails
                                                              5.


A hundred yards into the desert: a modestly-sized astronomical
observatory; a field of small radio telescopes; a chainlink
fence with regional-monument/point-of-interest marker; a flight
of steep, skinny wooden steps which descends into a wide crater
with, at center, ensconced in a rebar display-cage: a pock-
marked metallic rock the size of a cantaloupe.

EXT. AUTO GARAGE. DAY

The filling station. A hanging sign gently creaks. "Ice, Tires,
Service." The roadrunner trots to the center of the road and
sniffs at a sun-dried (dead) snake. A hazy speck shimmers-up
over a rise down the highway. The bird watches, then jolts back
into the brush. The speck, as it approaches, takes the form of a
sand-beaten tow-truck pulling a wood-paneled station wagon in
its winch. The brief convoy pulls under the shade of the fuel-
pump awning and crunches to a stop.

Four doors open (two on the cab, two on the wagon), and release
a weary, sweaty group which includes: a small man in his early
forties, bearded, dressed in a safari jacket with a Swiss camera
around his neck. He is Augie. A gangly boy, fourteen, dressed in
Bermuda shorts and tinted plastic sun-visor labeled: "Brainiac."
He is Woodrow. Three girls with matted hair, aged four, five,
and six, dressed in a mixed combination of bathing suits, pixie
costumes, pajamas, ruby slippers, etc. They are Andromeda,
Pandora, and Cassiopeia.

(NOTE: we recognize various performers as they appear in the
story, now costumed and in-character, from their earlier
introduction in the teleplay broadcast.)

A grizzled mechanic/tow-truck driver dressed in a grease-
speckled overall jumpsuit powers up his winch, lowering the
station wagon with a clanking rumble.

Woodrow scribbles in a small notebook. The three girls wander
vaguely in a daze, whispering and humming. Augie sticks a pipe
into his mouth, produces a Zippo lighter from one of his
numerous pockets, and fuels it straight from the gasoline pump.
He lights his pipe and puffs.

(NOTE: throughout the story, Augie employs an excess of self-
conscious/actorly business: with his pipe, with his lighter,
with his camera, with his beard, etc.)

INT. LUNCHEONETTE. DAY

A narrow, checkered-tile, chrome-and-bakelite cafï¿½ with soda
fountain, chalkboard specials, and a short-order window
communicating to the kitchen. Slatted blinds paint light/shadow
stripes over the long counter. Country music plays on the
jukebox. A chime jingles as Augie, Woodrow, and the three girls
                                                           6.


enter. The door clatters shut. A trapped fly buzzes against the
screen.

Behind the counter, two women: a sun-spotted cashier in her
sixties seated behind the register; and a Key-lime-green-
uniformed waitress in her seventies thumbing through a Sears
catalogue. They both look up at the arriving family. Augie says
(almost inaudible) in a faintly old-Brooklyn accent:

                    AUGIE
          Five orders of flapjacks and a black
          coffee.

The waitress nods and directs the group to sit. They occupy
their stools, side-by-side. A lanky cook, forty, in a white cap
and apron, snatches down the order-slip and peers out from the
kitchen. Augie says bluntly:

                    AUGIE
          Who needs to pee?

The girls respond with an adamant, unconvincing chorus: "Not
me." "I don't." "Nobody needs to pee." Woodrow looks up from his
notebook and says, matter-of-fact:

                    WOODROW
          Our average speed is eighty-three feet
          per second. Poor fuel efficiency due to
          excess wind resistance. (Probably the
          luggage rack.) Based on data before the
          loss of power, obviously.

Augie nods, weary. Woodrow resumes his scribbling. The sisters
mix a potion of salt, pepper, and mustard in an ashtray as they
whisper sinister incantations. The waitress interjects:

                    WAITRESS
          What do you little princesses want to
          drink?

The sisters respond suddenly, more or less in unison:

           ANDROMEDA                       CASSIOPEIA
We're not princesses.            I'm a vampire.

                    PANDORA
          I'm a mummy in Egypt who got buried alive
          and came back to life with his head
          chopped off.

          CASSIOPEIA                        ANDROMEDA
I suck people's blood.           I'm a fairy.

Pause. The waitress says agreeably:
                                                           7.


                    WAITRESS
          How about a glass of strawberry milk?

A distant boom shudders the building. Augie and Woodrow frown.
Augie says, alarmed:

                    AUGIE
          What was that?

                     CASHIER
                 (inevitably)
          Another atom bomb test.

Augie hesitates. He leans out the open window (followed by
Woodrow). Fifty miles away, beyond the mountains: a massive
mushroom cloud billows up into the sky. Augie's eyes widen. He
holds up his camera and snaps a photograph.

INT. AUTO GARAGE. DAY

The station wagon is now hoisted up on a hydraulic repair-lift.
The mechanic, Augie, Woodrow, and the three girls look up from
below the vehicle into the grease-and-dirt-coated agglomeration
of pipes, shafts, wires, and widgets. The mechanic explains:

                    MECHANIC
          I've seen this combination of symptoms
          twice before in the `52 Estate Model. In
          one case, it was a quick fix of a 75 cent
          part. In the other case, it was a
          difficult, costly, time-consuming
          disassembly and remantling of the entire
          drivetrain and lubrication mechanism
          which didn't work. The motor exploded
          itself, and the body was stripped and
          sold for scrap. (There it is.)

The mechanic points to the corroded remains of a similar-model
station wagon in a small junkyard next door. Augie frowns.

                    AUGIE
          Which one've we got?

                    MECHANIC
          We're about to find out.

The mechanic opens a small cardboard box and removes a fresh,
clean, hexagonal nut. He displays it briefly to the group. He
steps up onto a footstool and reaches up to carefully fit the
nut onto the end of a threaded post. He slowly twists. Augie and
the children move closer to watch. The mechanic twists tighter
and tighter. He pauses to switch to a wrench. He gently twists
until the nut resists, then gives it a little extra goose. He
looks down at the group. He descends from the footstool and
                                                           8.


climbs up into the station wagon. He inserts the car key. He
looks down at the group again. A hopeful nod. Augie watches,
anxious.

The mechanic turns on the ignition, and the motor whirs to life.

                    MECHANIC
          You got the first one.

                     AUGIE
                 (relieved)
          How much do I owe you?

                    MECHANIC
          Nothing. Ten dollars for the tow.

At that instant, simultaneously: both the vehicle's twin
mufflers/exhaust tailpipes backfire and explode with a muted,
concussive thud; all four tires spontaneously blow-out and drain
flat, hissing; the engine seizes and goes dead; and a sizable,
oil-coated, mechanical assembly (cast-iron, rubber-gasketed)
drops free from the undercarriage into the drip-basin below
where it sputters, vibrates, gasps, and squeals faintly,
scooting and hopping nervously in the shallow viscosity. Augie
asks, stunned:

                    AUGIE
          What's that?

The mechanic stares, intrigued and slightly frightened, from the
driver's seat above. He says quietly:

                    MECHANIC
          I don't know.

The mechanic quickly descends. He sprays down the assembly with
a high-pressure hose until it ceases its seizure. Augie and the
children watch in perplexed amazement. Silence.

                    MECHANIC
          I think you got a third problem we've
          never seen before.

EXT. HIGHWAY. DAY

A free-standing telephone booth next to a fence-post in the
corner of a vacant plot between the gas station and the motel
entrance. Bits of rubble and bottle-caps litter the dry, cracked
earth. A single wire extends diagonally up from the top of the
booth to an overhead line. Augie waits with the receiver to his
ear.
                                                           9.


(Woodrow lingers nearby scribbling periodically in his notebook
while his three sisters run in circles singing eerily and
swirling soap bubbles into the air with plastic wands).

SPLIT-SCREEN:

On one side: the interior of the telephone booth with chipped
paint and pencil-graffitied numbers with abbreviated exchange-
names. On the other side: the vast, wood-and-stone, low-ceiling
living room of a luxurious ranch house overlooking a golf
course. A houseboy in a yellow butler's jacket answers:

                    HOUSEBOY
          Zak residence.

                    AUGIE
          Romulus, this is Augie Steenbeck.

                    HOUSEBOY
          Good morning, Mr. Augie. The gate is
          open.

                    AUGIE
          We're not there.

                     HOUSEBOY
                 (mildly surprised)
          You're not here?

The houseboy checks his watch and frowns.

                    AUGIE
          May I speak to Mr. Zak?

                    HOUSEBOY
          Yes, Mr. Augie.

The houseboy sets down the telephone and hurries away from
camera, through the deep room, out via louvered double-doors.
Augie mops his brow with a handkerchief.

Faintly: the sounds of a siren and a distant motor. Augie leans
out of the booth and squints. Camera pans away, down the
highway, to a black Chevy sedan roaring toward, whizzing past,
then racing away from the telephone booth -- followed
immediately by a state trooper in pursuit, lights flashing. A
few exchanged gunshots pop. Camera continues panning (now 360
degrees) back to Augie watching, perturbed. (Woodrow, in the
background, adds this event to his notebook.)

In the meantime: a tall, silver-haired seventy-year-old dressed
in tartan trousers and clacking, spiked golf shoes enters the
living room followed by the houseboy and approaches the
                                                          10.


telephone. He carries a tumbler of orange juice. He is Stanley.
He picks up the receiver.

                    STANLEY
          You're not here?

                    AUGIE
          We're not there. The car exploded. Come
          get the girls.

                     STANLEY
                 (surprised)
          The car -- exploded?

                    AUGIE
          Parts of the car. Exploded itself, yes.
          Come get the girls.

                     STANLEY
                 (stiffening)
          I'm not the chauffeur. I'm the
          grandfather. Where are you?

                    AUGIE
          Asteroid City. Farm-route Six, mile 75.
          Come get the girls. I have to stay here
          with Woodrow.

                     STANLEY
                 (perplexed)
          What are you talking about?

                     AUGIE
                 (irritated)
          The thing. For Woodrow. We're there.

Augie motions obliquely to the motel: a classic motor court with
individual clapboard bungalows. A sign next to the entrance
reads: "Welcome, Junior Stargazers and Space Cadets!"

                    STANLEY
          Hm.

Silence. Stanley says grimly:

                    STANLEY
          How'd they take it?

                     AUGIE
                 (reluctant)
          They didn't.
                                                              11.


                     STANLEY
                 (puzzled)
          No?

                    AUGIE
          No.

                     STANLEY
                 (in disbelief)
          No!

                    AUGIE
          Yes.

Augie and Stanley say simultaneously, almost inaudibly:

            STANLEY                            AUGIE
You didn't tell them. Still.      I still didn't tell them.

                     STANLEY
                 (frustrated)
          You promised.

                    AUGIE
          I know.

Augie stares into space. He closes his eyes and shakes his head.

                    AUGIE
          The time is never right.

Stanley nods slowly. He shares his advice, firm but
philosophical:

                    STANLEY
          The time is always wrong.

Augie contemplates this. Stanley asks, less important/aside:

                    STANLEY
          Are you OK?

                     AUGIE
                 (lightly)
          No.

Silence. Both men begin to quietly, almost imperceptibly, cry.
Augie says -- just now realizing:

                    AUGIE
          You never liked me, did you?
                                                             12.


                     STANLEY
                 (more precisely)
          I never loved you.

Augie nods. They both expand on the point:

             AUGIE                              STANLEY
You always thought I wasn't         I always thought she could've
good enough for her.                done better.

                     STANLEY
                 (pleased)
          Yes. We're saying the same thing.

Augie takes a deep breath. Stanley drinks his orange juice, then
gives two orders (one to the houseboy, one to Augie):

                    STANLEY
          Gas up the Cadillac. Tell the kids.

            AUGIE                             HOUSEBOY
I will.                             OK.

                    STANLEY
          I'll be there when I get there.

Augie and Stanley bluntly hang up. Woodrow and his sisters stand
next to Augie, alongside the telephone booth, waiting. Augie
opens the door and looks into the near distance. Pause. He takes
a photograph, then says:

                    AUGIE
          It's the end of that car.

Augie begins to march across the highway. He issues clipped
instructions as Woodrow and his sisters follow behind him:

                     AUGIE
          Andromeda: check under the floor mats.
          Pandora: check the side pockets.
          Cassiopeia: check the cracks between the
          seats. Take everything.
                 (aside)
          What do you think, Woodrow?

                    WOODROW
          I think it's kind of sad.

Camera pans to the station wagon, now parked outside the garage
on its four flat tires. The mechanic continues to examine it.
Augie approaches the vehicle, steps up onto the rear bumper, and
disconnects a roof-rack strap. He pulls down valises and camera
cases, handing them to Woodrow, who lines them up in a row. The
three sisters open doors and windows and begin to throw things
                                                             13.


out onto the ground, haphazard: bags, boxes, cartons; half-naked
dolls and stuffed animals; partially-uneaten snacks, stray
socks, books, etc.

Augie opens the glove box and withdraws: gloves, a packet of
pipe-tobacco, a selection of maps and documents, and an old roll
of exposed 120mm film. He flips open the passenger-side ashtray.
He pauses. He stares. He bites his lip.

INSERT:

A cigarette butt smudged with red lipstick.

CUT TO:

A high-angle view of the entire, compact municipality. Augie,
Woodrow, and the three girls re-cross the highway (heading to
the motel) lugging their suitcases, bags, and boxes. From one
direction: a trio of assorted station wagons enters the town,
followed immediately by an Army Jeep tugging a small, steel-and-
rivet trailer. From the other direction: two more station
wagons, plus a cross-country bus which stops in front of the
luncheonette.

EXT. LUNCHEONETTE/MOTEL. DAY

The door of the bus flings open. The driver, burly, in cap and
uniform, descends first and shouts:

                     BUS DRIVER
          Rest stop!
                 (checking his watch)
          Thirteen minutes.

The bus driver ambles around to the nose of the bus, withdraws a
wax paper-wrapped ham sandwich from his pocket, and takes a
bite. Assorted passengers without baggage (a traveling salesman,
a small church group with collared minister, an old man with two
canes, a posse of cowboys and ranch hands) spill out and spread
in various directions to stretch their legs, use the bathrooms
(entrance on the outside of the building), smoke cigars/
cigarettes, and dart into the luncheonette. The screened door
bangs open and shut repeatedly, chiming, as hamburger-coffee-and-
doughnut-orders are called out in urgent voices. Finally, a
class of ten eight-year-old pupils accompanied by two elderly-
lady chaperones emerges from the bus carrying small suitcases
and a picnic basket with, behind them: a seasoned but youthful
schoolteacher. She wears a cardigan with knitted flowers
stitched to it, a white collar, hair sharply parted, heels. She
is June. One of the cowboys (name: Montana) briefly sidles back
into frame to discreetly give her the once-over.

June stops the group as they reach the ground, announcing:
                                                           14.


                    JUNE
          Head count! Boys and girls?

The children immediately gather close and look up at June as
each chirps his/her number, one to ten. June nods officiously.

                    JUNE
          Plus Libby, Margie, and me. All present.
          Let's give thanks for a safe journey.
          Billy?

The children briskly fold their hands and bow their heads. A
freckled boy improvises:

                    FRECKLED BOY
          Dear Heavenly Father, We thank Thee
          kindly for a terrific bus ride. I ate
          three boxes of Crackerjacks and got a dog-
          whistle and a miniature map of the
          original thirteen colonies. Also: we saw
          a coyote get run over by a fourteen-
          wheeler, and it left him flat as a
          pancake. Boy, oh, boy! What else? The bus
          driver had to stop twice because Bernice
          couldn't hold it.

A girl with curly red hair opens her eyes and interjects
sharply:

                      CURLY-HAIRED GIRL
          Could so!

                      JUNE
                  (loudly)
          Amen.

"Amens" all around; then June calls out, commanding but
pleasant:

                    JUNE
          Lunchtime! Line up single-file.

(NOTE: an increasing traffic of criss-crossing people appear in
the foreground and background of this scene, welcoming arriving
parties, preparing accommodations, rushing.)

Car doors swing open and whang shut as families disembark from
the newly-arrived station wagons parked at various angles
between the luncheonette and the motel. First: a strikingly
blonde woman in her mid-thirties, glamorous in dark sunglasses,
accompanied by her gum-chewing fifteen-year-old daughter. They
are Midge and Dinah. Their driver/bodyguard is a tall, burly man
in chinos and a blazer. His eyes scan left and right, checking
security. Midge says, perspiring:
                                                          15.


                    MIDGE
          My word! It's hot.

                     DINAH
                 (shrugs)
          It's the desert. What'd you expect?

                    MIDGE
          Well, I don't know if I expected one
          thing or another -- but I'm wilting like
          a cut petunia.

Next: a businessman in his late forties, summer suit, straw hat
tipped back, accompanied by his son, fourteen, in tennis
clothes. They are J.J. and Clifford. Clifford plucks a tiny,
bright red pepper from a vine on a trellis outside the
luncheonette and holds it up to his father:

                    CLIFFORD
          You dare me?

                     J.J.
                 (absently)
          Dare you what?

                     CLIFFORD
                 (brightly)
          To eat this hot pepper. It's an
          experiment.

                    J.J.
          No.

Clifford bites the pepper in half. J.J. waits.

Next: a woman, forty-five, accompanied by her daughter,
fourteen, both in brown-and-white gingham girl scout-type
uniforms (labeled "Cookie Troopers"). They are Sandy and Shelly.
Sandy wears a badge which reads "Regional Headmistress" and
nibbles from a carton of Cookie Trooper Jam-Crispies. (She keeps
a box of this kind in hand at all times throughout the story.)
Shelly carries a movie magazine ("Screen Dreamboats") tucked
under her arm. She whispers to her mother, furtive but
awestruck, peering back past the other families:

                    SHELLY
          Holy Toledo. That's Midge Campbell.

                     SANDY
                 (alerted)
          Where? Who?

                    SHELLY
          Right smack in back of you. Don't look.
                                                          16.


Next: inside the open front window of the motor court check-in
office, the motel manager (tall, rangy, amiable, in a bolo tie
and Western shirt) greets a scientist (fifty, Hawaiian
shirt/white trousers) accompanied by his aviator-spectacled son,
fifteen. They are Roger and Ricky. The motel manager guesses
correctly:

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          Mr. Cho? You're in cabin seven. Well,
          tent seven. Here's the key, but there's
          no door (just a flap). Ha-ha.

The motel manager smiles, uneasy. Roger hesitates, skeptical:

                    ROGER
          Tent?

                     MOTEL MANAGER
                 (regretfully)
          I know.

In the background: Clifford enters hyperventilating with his
tongue sticking out. He begins to fill up/guzzle down paper
cones of water one after another from a dispenser in the corner
while the motel manager continues to explain to Roger:

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          I upgraded the electrical system Tuesday
          morning. Better lighting, power for the
          ice-machine, and a wall-mounted bug-
          zapper. Unfortunately, a mistake got
          made, and cabin seven burned to the
          ground. It's a tent now.

                     ROGER
                 (in disbelief)
          We don't want to sleep in a tent.

                     MOTEL MANAGER
                 (soothing)
          Of course, I understand. May I say: I
          think you'll find it very comfortable.
                 (distracted)
          Is the young gentleman in distress?

The motel manager points. Clifford is now kneeling below the
water dispenser, drinking directly from its spigot. J.J. waits
in the doorway nearby:

                    J.J.
          He's thirsty.
                                                          17.


                     MOTEL MANAGER
          Of course, I understand.
                 (to Roger)
          Juice preference, please. Apple, orange,
          or tomato?

Just outside: an arcade of fifteen vending machines (sodas,
candy, snacks, coffee, milk, fruit, toiletries, nylon
stockings). The posse of cowboys and ranch hands loiters as
Montana fights with the cigarette machine, banging it with his
fists, then kicking it. The motel manager pokes his head out the
window and shouts, anxious:

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          Excuse me, sir?

                     MONTANA
                 (frustrated)
          This bucket of nuts just stole my
          quarter.

                     MOTEL MANAGER
                 (apologetic)
          I beg your pardon.

The motel manager ducks back inside. All the vending machines
light up at once and begin to hum. Montana tries the machine
again and receives his pack of cigarettes.

Camera now makes its way through the neat, little compound of
freshly painted bungalows and small palm trees; past a cabin
which has incinerated completely to a cinder except for its
bathtub; past an immediately adjacent canvas tent; past a
communal shower where a woman in a bathrobe and slippers is
waiting outside clutching a folded towel and a bar of soap; and
finally to Augie and his family, who have arranged themselves,
seated on suitcases, stumps, and footstools, outside the open
door of a bungalow marked "Cabin #10." An unseen figure inside
operates a vacuum cleaner.

In his hands, Augie holds: a green and yellow Tupperware salad
bowl, sealed. In the background: a gardener/handyman tends to a
flower bed; the breeze rustles linens hanging from a
clothesline; a yipping terrier chases a thrown stick; big band
music plays softly from a radio. Augie says, pained, as camera
comes to a stop:

                     AUGIE
          And, to put it bluntly, after all the
          surgeries, therapies, and interventions,
          after two years of struggling and
          suffering: she succumbed to her
          illnesses.
                                                          18.


Woodrow and his sisters are immobile and thunderstruck. Tears
run down Augie's cheeks.

                    AUGIE
          I'm sorry. I didn't know how to tell you
          then. I couldn't figure out how to tell
          you later. I didn't know what to do. The
          time was never right.

Silence. Woodrow finally asks:

                    WOODROW
          You're saying our mother died three weeks
          ago?

                    AUGIE
          Yes.

The three girls begin to cry continuously at a low decibel from
this point through the end of the scene. Andromeda asks,
sobbing:

                    ANDROMEDA
          When is she coming back?

                     AUGIE
                 (excruciatingly)
          She's not coming back. Let's say she's in
          heaven, which doesn't exist for me, of
          course -- but you're Episcopalian.

Augie hugs the family together. They sit for a minute, absorbing
the situation. Augie says to Woodrow:

                    AUGIE
          Did you know? Already.

                    WOODROW
          I think so.

Augie nods. He says softly:

                     AUGIE
          She'd been away so long.
                 (pause)
          We're going to be OK. Your grandfather's
          on his way. We're going to stay with him
          for -- a period of time which has yet to
          be determined how long it's going to be.

Woodrow points at the bowl. Augie nods again, holding back tears
as he says with the slightest twinkle at the absurdity of it:
                                                          19.


                    AUGIE
          Yes. She's in the Tupperware.

Pause. Augie suddenly clarifies for the girls, who look slightly
confused:

                      AUGIE
          Cremated.

Woodrow peels open a corner of the top of the bowl and peers
inside. He reseals it. Pandora asks, weeping:

                    PANDORA
          Are we orphans now?

                     AUGIE
                 (pause)
          No, because I'm still alive.

Pandora nods. Augie reaches into the past:

                     AUGIE
          When my father died, my mother told me,
          "He's in the stars." I told her, "The
          closest star other than that one --"
                 (pointing to the sun)
          "-- is four and half light years away
          with a surface temperature over 5000
          degrees centigrade. He's not in the
          stars," I said. "He's in the ground." She
          thought it would comfort me. (She was an
          atheist.) The other thing she said which
          is incorrect: "Time heals all wounds."
          No. Maybe it can be a Band-Aid. Your
          concept of time is completely distorted,
          though. I don't think any of you except
          Woodrow even understands what fifteen
          minutes means.

                     PANDORA
                 (whimpering)
          Fifteen minutes is sixty-two hundred
          hours.

                    AUGIE
          Exactly. That's not your fault. I
          definitely handled this wrong, by the way
          -- but handling it right wouldn't've
          helped, either.

Woodrow and his sisters gaze into space. Augie says finally,
hopeful:
                                                          20.


                    AUGIE
          If you could have anything in the world
          to eat right now: what would it be?

INT. LUNCHEONETTE. DAY

The three sisters sit at the counter eating banana splits, eyes
red from crying. Woodrow sips a vanilla milkshake with a striped
straw. Augie sadly tamps his pipe. In the background, outside
the window: the posse of cowboys and ranch hands rush into view
and hurriedly grab up baggage left behind for them on the tarmac
(including guitar/banjo/bass fiddle cases) and race scrambling
after the bus; but it drives away without them. Then: the Chevy
pursued by the state trooper races by again in the opposite
direction, dragging its muffler. (A pair of motorcycle police
have now joined the chase.) The sounds of the engines and
popping gunshots diminish. Pause.

Augie looks down the length of the diner. At the far end: Midge
and Dinah are finishing a late breakfast. (The driver/bodyguard
seated alone in a corner, works on a crossword puzzle.) Augie
watches for a moment, then winds his camera and takes a picture.
Midge looks to Augie directly after the shutter clicks. She
frowns. She says loudly across the room with food in her mouth:

                    MIDGE
          You took a picture of me.

Woodrow and Dinah look up. Augie answers:

                     AUGIE
          Uh-huh.

                     MIDGE
          Why?

                     AUGIE
                 (shrugs)
          I'm a photographer.

                    MIDGE
          You didn't ask permission.

                    AUGIE
          I never ask permission.

                     MIDGE
          Why not?

                    AUGIE
          Because I work in trenches, battlefields,
          and combat zones.
                                                          21.


                     MIDGE
                 (surprised)
          Really?

                    AUGIE
          Uh-huh.

                     MIDGE
                 (intrigued)
          You mean you're a war photographer.

                     AUGIE
                 (vaguely)
          Mostly. Sometimes I cover sporting
          events. My name is Augie Steenbeck.

Long pause. Woodrow and Dinah meet eyes. Woodrow quickly returns
to his milkshake. Dinah watches him coolly. Midge presses on:

                    MIDGE
          What are you going to do with it? That
          picture.

Augie considers this. He says theoretically:

                    AUGIE
          If it's any good, I guess I'll try to
          sell it to a magazine, now that you
          mention it. "Midge Campbell Eating a
          Waffle."

                    MIDGE
          Make me a print first. To approve.

                    AUGIE
          Uh-huh.

Dinah raises her hand. Midge looks at her.

                    MIDGE
          This is Dinah.

                     AUGIE
                 (pause)
          This is Woodrow.

                    DINAH
          I have a question.

                     AUGIE
                 (pause)
          Uh-huh.
                                                          22.


                    DINAH
          Have you ever been shot? With bullets.

Midge looks at her daughter and raises an eyebrow. Augie says,
slightly reluctant:

                    AUGIE
          Once or twice. Just grazed.

                     WOODROW
          He got shrapneled in the back of the
          head, too.
                 (to Augie)
          Show her.

Augie sighs. He twists, and Woodrow points to a bald dot above
the nape of Augie's neck. Dinah nods, interested. Midge turns
back to her waffles -- but says pointedly (without looking):

                    MIDGE
          I don't say I forgive you yet, by the
          way.

EXT. METEOR CRATER. DAY

A congregation has assembled at the bottom/center of the impact
crater below the observatory. The audience of parents,
guardians, schoolchildren, and military personnel sits in
folding chairs in front of a make-shift stage and dais. A banner
decorated with stars, comets, and rockets reads:

               ASTEROID DAY 1955
               Sponsored by
               the United States Military-science
               Research and Experimentation Division
               & the LARKINGS Foundation
               "For a Powerful America"

A uniformed aide-de-camp stands next to an American flag waving
on a short flagpole. A business executive in a dark suit (with a
badge on the lapel: "LARKINGS Corp.") sits discreetly in the
background. Woodrow, Dinah, Clifford, Roger, and Shelly wait on
display in an uneasy row behind a table arranged with five neat
red-white-and-blue velvet boxes. Augie is in the audience with
the girls who are now made-up as witches and goblins with
plastic fangs and claws. A cameraman films the proceedings in
16mm from a tripod on a rickety scaffolding tower.

(NOTE: from this scene forward most of the visiting parents,
students, judges, et al. wear tags displaying their full names
and the stars/comets/rockets motif.)

At a lectern also decorated with the stars/comets/rockets motif
stands: a tall, square-jawed, broad-shouldered, immaculately
                                                          23.


pressed and polished five-star officer in his mid-fifties. He is
General Gibson. His voice reverberates over a P.A. speaker:

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          Welcome! From the United States Military-
          science Research and Experimentation
          Division (in conjunction with the
          Larkings Foundation). We salute you.

Reserved applause as General Gibson salutes in various
directions. He refers to his notes (typewritten, orderly) and
begins:

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          Each year we celebrate "Asteroid Day,"
          commemorating September 23, 3007 B.C.
          when the Arid Plains meteorite made earth-
          impact.

General Gibson motions to the small, spherical rock within the
rebar cage at the center of the crater.

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          The itinerary for this three-day
          celebration includes a tour of the newly
          refurbished observatory with Dr.
          Hickenlooper and her staff --

General Gibson motions to a woman (age: fifty) dressed in red
plaid trousers, climbing boots, and a belted leather jacket. She
is Dr. Hickenlooper. Her younger assistant wears a white lab
coat.

                     GENERAL GIBSON
          -- a picnic supper of chili and
          frankfurters with evening fireworks
          display --

General Gibson motions to the waitress, cashier, and cook seated
together in the audience; and, next to them, the mechanic who
now wears a badge: "Pyrotechnics Expert."

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          -- the viewing of the Astronomical
          Ellipses at its peak (just before
          midnight tonight) --

General Gibson looks up at the sky. He looks back down to the
audience.

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          -- and finally, the awarding of the
          annual Hickenlooper Scholarship after
          Monday's banquet lunch.
                                                          24.


General Gibson motions to the aide-de-camp, who holds up: a
giant-sized cashier's check in the amount of $5,000 made out to
"New Hickenlooper Scholar." He looks briefly to the five
teenagers and motions to the boxes on the table.

                     GENERAL GIBSON
          I'll start by presenting the
          commemorative medals -- but, first, I'll
          do my speech, first (which you'll also
          receive in a folio edition as a
          souvenir).

During the following recitation, General Gibson gives a
carefully rehearsed performance, modulating pace, volume, and
emphasis for dramatic effect:

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          "Chapter one: I walked to school eighteen
          miles each morning, milked the goats,
          plucked the chickens, played hooky,
          caught fireflies, went skinny-dipping in
          the watering hole, said my prayers every
          night, and got whipped with a maple
          switch twice a week. That was life.
          Chapter two: my father went off to fight
          in the war to end all wars (it didn't),
          and what-was-left-of-him came back in a
          pine box with a flag on top. End of
          chapter two. Next: I went to officer
          school and twenty years passed at the
          speed of a dream. A wife, a son, a
          daughter, a poodle. Chapter three:
          another war. Arms and legs blown off like
          popcorn. Eyeballs gouged out,
          figuratively and literally. The men put
          on shows under the palm fronds dressed as
          women in hula skirts. That was life. In
          the meantime, somebody else's story: a
          man thinks up a number, divides it by a
          trillion, plugs it into the square root
          of the circumference of the earth
          multiplied by the speed of a splitting
          atom -- and voila! Progress. I'm not a
          scientist. You are. End of chapter three.
          Junior Stargazers and Space Cadets --"

General Gibson motions to the schoolchildren, seated with June
and the chaperones.

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          "-- we watch, transfixed, as you enter
          into uncharted territories of the brains
          and spirit. If you wanted to live a nice,
          quiet, peaceful life: you picked the
                    (more)
                                                          25.

                     GENERAL GIBSON (cont'd)
           wrong time to get born." That's my
           speech.

Silence. Suddenly: enthusiastic (if slightly puzzled) applause
from the whole group.

                     GENERAL GIBSON
           Be notified: you are each the guardian of
           your own safety. Maintain alert caution
           throughout the following demonstrations.

MONTAGE:

First: Ricky (in safety helmet, gloves, and boots) manipulates
the controls of a roaring jet-pack as he hovers twenty feet
above the cowering audience, blasting them with dust and dirt.
His father, grimacing on the ground, clings to the end of a rope
tether, struggling to prevent his son from rocketing up higher
into the sky.

                     GENERAL GIBSON (V.O.)
           To Ricky Cho, for his work in the field
           of Aeronautical Induction:

General Gibson pops open one of the velvet boxes and presents
the contents to Ricky as he announces his prize:

                     GENERAL GIBSON
           "The Collapsing Star Ribbon of Success."

Next: a heavy, clay plate catapults into the air as Clifford
hoists a metallic-and-plastic electromagnetic death-ray up to
his shoulder and pulls the trigger, silently zapping the plate
into a shower of glowing dots which linger in space, sizzling,
then pop away like electric soap bubbles.

                     GENERAL GIBSON (V.O.)
           To Clifford Kellogg, for his work in the
           study of Particle Disintegration:

General Gibson presents/announces Clifford's prize:

                     GENERAL GIBSON
           "The Black Hole Badge of Triumph."

Next: faces crowd all around a terracotta pot filled with black
soil inside a glass incubation box.

                     GENERAL GIBSON (V.O.)
           To Dinah Campbell, for her work in the
           area of Botanical Acceleration:

Dinah turns a dial. A quartet of coiled tubes at the upper
corners of the box begin to hum and vibrate, and a green stem
                                                          26.


pokes up out of the dirt, uncurls, grows, and finally delivers a
perfect geranium blossom -- which almost immediately withers and
sheds its petals.

                    DINAH
          It's fueled by cosmic radiation instead
          of sunlight. Unfortunately, it makes
          vegetables toxic.

General Gibson presents/announces Dinah's prize:

                    GENERAL GIBSON (V.O.)
          "The Red Giant Sash of Honor."

Next: Shelly stands next to a large periodic table on a stand as
she displays a hunk of doughy, grey paste in a mason jar.

                    GENERAL GIBSON (V.O.)
          To Shelly Borden, for her work in the
          realm of Mineral Fabrication:

Shelly opens the jar, shakes the hunk of paste into her hand,
and squishes it slightly. She politely announces:

                    SHELLY
          I synthesized an extraterrestrial
          element. It's going to be added to the
          periodic table next year.

General Gibson presents/announces Shelly's prize:

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          "The Distant Nebula Laurel Crown."

Next: Woodrow glances now and then to the sky as he carefully
adjusts the angles of hinged lenses and mirrors on a doughnut-
shaped erection of beams, posts, and braces.

                    GENERAL GIBSON (V.O.)
          To Woodrow Steenbeck, for his work in the
          sphere of Astronomical Imaging:

Woodrow steps back and double-checks a list in his notebook. He
clicks a switch, illuminating a circle of light bulbs. A
hologram of the moon the size of a beach ball appears at the
center of the device, rotating slowly, pocked with crisply-
rendered craters.

General Gibson presents/announces Woodrow's prize:

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          "The White Dwarf Medal of Achievement."
                                                          27.


Not yet finished: Woodrow drops a small, glass slide into a
slot, casting the image of an American flag onto the surface of
the hologram-moon. He points up. Everyone looks. In the clear,
afternoon sky: the American flag appears in full color on the
surface of the actual moon itself. A collective gasp from the
audience. Spontaneous, giddy applause. Woodrow says calmly:

                    WOODROW
          It may have applications in the
          development of interstellar advertising.

Finally: the five teenagers (now wearing their various pins,
medals, sashes, etc.) bow and smile, politely accepting an
enthusiastic ovation.

INT. OBSERVATORY. DAY

A classroom separated by glass-partition-walls from the adjacent
laboratory offices and dormitory chambers. Children/teenagers
sit in school desks. Adults (parents, teachers, military) stand
crowded around the edges of the room. Outside: the field of
spinning radio telescopes. Dr. Hickenlooper, at a table in
front, concludes:

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          Our little tour ends here. Thank you for
          your attention -- and thank you to the
          Larkings Foundation for their generous
          funding.

The audience filters their way out the door. Woodrow lingers
next to Dr. Hickenlooper as she puts on lipstick in a compact
mirror. He points to a small display on the terrace outside: a
scoreboard decorated with varicolored light-bulbs and blinking
panels. It emits a repetitive combination of electronic noises.

                    WOODROW
          What do those pulses indicate?

                     DR. HICKENLOOPER
                 (zipping her handbag)
          What? Oh, the beeps and blips. We don't
          know. Indecipherable radio emissions from
          outer space. Probably a red herring.

                     WOODROW
                 (pause)
          Does it change? Ever.

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          Not to my knowledge.

                    WOODROW
          It's a date. Maybe.
                                                              28.


Dr. Hickenlooper squints at the display. She nods slowly.

       DR. HICKENLOOPER                       WOODROW
It's a date? Maybe.               On the galactic calendar.

                      DR. HICKENLOOPER
                  (hollering)
          Mary!

Dr. Hickenlooper's assistant appears at her side, curious. Dr.
Hickenlooper nods at Woodrow as she speculates:

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          We think it's a date on the galactic
          calendar.

                      ASSISTANT
                  (surprised)
          Wow!

Woodrow checks his watch. He frowns.

                    WOODROW
          Is it always today?

Dr. Hickenlooper checks her own watch. She looks at Woodrow,
puzzled/impressed.

EXT. MOTEL GARDEN. EVENING

Strung lights in the shapes of little planets festoon the palm
trees. The juke box (now outdoors) plays a lush/romantic
orchestral tune. The luncheonette waitress and cook serve from
pots and trays (chili, hot dogs, potato chips and potato salad,
pickles, stacks of white bread) at a buffet on the edge of an
arrangement of white-papered picnic tables which seat festive
groups in mid-supper: the five teenagers; the parents/guardians;
the military personnel; the school group; Dr. Hickenlooper and
her assistant; the posse of cowboys and ranch hands who missed
the bus.

Table #1: the freckled boy says grace for his classmates,
teacher, and chaperones:

                    FRECKLED BOY
          We thank Thee for the ketchup, and we
          thank Thee for the mustard. We thank Thee
          for the relish, and we thank Thee for the
          onions. We thank Thee for the --

                     JUNE
                 (suddenly)
          Head count!
                                                                29.


The children/chaperones hesitate, looking at each other,
uncertain. They chirp their numbers once again -- but there is a
silence after "six." June frowns. She says, anxious:

                    JUNE
          Where's Dwight?

Table #2: J.J., Roger, and Sandy engage in a slightly combative
debate:

                    J.J.
          Less than zero-point-zero-zero-zero-zero-
          zero-zero percent chance exists of
          extraterrestrial life in the entire
          universe. It's a scientific fact. Other
          than space bugs and microscopic worms.

                    ROGER
          I assertively disagree.

                    SANDY
          So do I. It's not a scientific fact.

             ROGER                               SANDY
It's not even a number.             Pass the pickles, please.

The motel manager interjects as he lights sparklers and passes
them to his guests:

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          How's the chili?

                      J.J.
                  (without looking up)
          Fine.

         MOTEL MANAGER                           J.J.
Thank you.                          Once you add the hot sauce.

                     ROGER
                 (passing the pickles)
          Consider the constants: endless space and
          immeasurable time. The likelihood is
          increased by a factor of infinity.

                     J.J.
                 (distracted)
          Where'd you get that?

The driver/bodyguard, listening nearby, sips a dry martini from
an undersized glass. The motel manager chimes in warmly:

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          The cantina machine.
                                                          30.


Roger and Sandy perk up considerably. Augie and Midge, opposite
each other at the head and foot of the table, conduct a
separate/simultaneous conversation:

                    AUGIE
          Can you see anything? With those on your
          face.

Midge points to her dark sunglasses ("These?"), then removes
them -- revealing a severe black-eye/shiner with purple, pink,
and yellow highlights. Augie looks surprised but responds with
clinical stoicism:

                    AUGIE
          Gadzooks. What'd you do to deserve that?

                     MIDGE
          Nothing.

                    AUGIE
          Who hit you?

                     MIDGE
          Nobody.

Midge licks her finger and rubs the bruise. It smudges slightly.
Augie squints. Midge explains:

                    MIDGE
          It's greasepaint. To feel like my
          character. It's there on purpose.

                    AUGIE
                (intrigued/confused)
          Oh.

Augie contemplates this for a moment. He says finally:

                    AUGIE
          How does she get a black eye? In the
          story.

                    MIDGE
          She doesn't. In the story. It's on the
          inside.

Table #3: General Gibson and the business executive review a
sheaf of documents:

                    EXECUTIVE
          The Larkings Foundation claims permanent,
          incontestable rights to all patents or
          inventions derived from any and every
          submission, without exception.
                                                          31.


                    GENERAL GIBSON
          Not for teenagers. (Read the fine print.)
          The projects all belong to Uncle Sam.

Table #4 ("Reserved for Junior Stargazer Honorees"): Clifford
does a yo-yo trick for Dinah, Ricky, and Shelly.

                    CLIFFORD
          I call it: "Triple Orbit and Return
          without Burning up in the Atmosphere."

Clifford swirls the yo-yo three times into the air, then whips
it back quickly. He watches to see how impressed the others are.
(Hard to judge.) Dinah looks away -- then says suddenly to an
off-screen character:

                    DINAH
          Why are you sitting there all by
          yourself?

At a remove of approximately twenty feet: Woodrow is perched on
a metal camper's ice chest with his dinner plate in his lap. He
looks around in all directions to determine if he is the person
actually being addressed.

                    DINAH
          Are you shy?

                     WOODROW
                 (long pause)
          I'm a late bloomer. So I've been told (by
          my parents).

                     CLIFFORD
                 (bluntly)
          Are you intimidated by us?

                    WOODROW
                (short pause)
          No.

                    CLIFFORD
          Let's do a personality test. (What's your
          name, again?)

                     WOODROW
                 (hesitates)
          Woodrow L. Steenbeck.

                    RICKY
          What's the "L" for?

                       WOODROW
          Lindbergh.
                                                           32.


                    CLIFFORD
          Everybody: look at Woodrow.

Dinah, Clifford, Ricky, and Shelly all stare intently at
Woodrow. Woodrow turns bright red, but meets their eyes.
Clifford nods wisely.

                    CLIFFORD
          I agree: shy, but not intimidated.

                    RICKY
          Move over here, Woodrow.

Ricky nods to a vacant seat at the picnic table. Woodrow
reluctantly transports himself and his dinner. (In the
background, Clifford climbs an ivied trellis.) Dinah points at
Woodrow's hat as he sits:

                    DINAH
          "Brainiac." It sort of goes without
          saying, doesn't it? Everybody already
          knows we're abnormally intelligent.

                     WOODROW
                 (hesitates)
          That's true. My mother made it for me.
          It's supposed to be funny (according to
          her sense of humor) -- but it's not as
          hilarious as it was originally.

                      DINAH
          How come?

                    WOODROW
          Because she was alive then. Now she's
          dead.

                      DINAH
          Oh.

                       WOODROW
                   (oddly)
          Ha-ha.

Ricky and Shelly look away/down, nod and murmur, uncomfortable.
Dinah asks Woodrow:

                    DINAH
          What was she like?

Woodrow thinks for a moment. Dinah, Ricky, and Shelly stare
intently at him again. They suddenly look concerned. Woodrow, as
before, has turned bright red, now with puffy eyes and tears
streaming down his face. He appears to be, nevertheless, still
                                                             33.


searching for an answer. Dinah, Ricky, and Shelly wait,
speechless. Woodrow reaches into his pocket and takes out a
photograph. He shows it.

                       WOODROW
          Like this.

INSERT:

A snapshot of a dazzling, dark-eyed, thirty-year-old brunette in
a one-piece bathing suit laughing, exuberant, as she bathes in
an inflatable swimming pool on a downtown fire-escape.

Dinah studies the picture. She says, solemn:

                    DINAH
          When'd you lose her?

                     WOODROW
                 (hesitates)
          Officially? This morning (but I think I
          already knew).

Dinah looks shocked/confused. Clifford's voice interrupts,
calling from off-screen:

                       CLIFFORD (O.S.)
          Howdy!

Woodrow, Dinah, Ricky, and Shelly look all around -- then up:
Clifford has climbed onto the roof of the closest bungalow where
he stands, hands on hips, legs apart, casually heroic. Shelly
frowns.

                    SHELLY
          What are you doing up there?

                     CLIFFORD
                 (shrugs)
          Just enjoying the night air.

Woodrow, Dinah, Ricky, and Shelly watch Clifford briefly,
faintly annoyed. Clifford continues:

                    CLIFFORD
          You dare me?

                     SHELLY
                 (blankly)
          Dare you what?

                    CLIFFORD
          To jump off this bungalow. It's an
          experiment.
                                                          34.


                    RICKY
          No.

Clifford leaps off the rooftop (flailing deliberately as he aims
for a patch of thick grass which he partially misses) and bangs
into a garbage can which spills orange peels, soups cans,
processed meat tins, etc. He stands up, limping but pleased, and
picks grass off his skin. Woodrow (who, looking at his watch,
appears to have timed the descent) says, aside:

                    WOODROW
          I love gravity. It might be my favorite
          law of physics, at the moment.

INSERT:

A vending machine labeled "Martini with Twist." In a window on
the front of the unit: a lemon on a little spool spins while an
automated paring knife curls free a sliver of peel -- which
drops down to garnish a clear liquid in a glass cup.

EXT. MOTEL OFFICE. EVENING

The motel manager passes the martini to J.J., who is just
finishing a previous cup. Roger's and Sandy's are half-full/half-
empty.

                    J.J.
          Be that as it may, I strongly question
          whether your daughter's Silly-Putty
          resembles anything from outer space.

             SANDY                            J.J.
It's not Silly-Putty.            I'm sorry, but I doubt it.

                    SANDY
          It's called S'morestozium.

J.J. clinks Sandy's glass and takes a sip. He is impressed.

                    J.J.
          This is excellent.

                     MOTEL MANAGER
                 (modest but proud)
          Thank you. It's really all the machine's
          doing.

                    SANDY
          What the devil do you know about
          Astrogeology, anyway, J.J. (whatever that
          stands for)?
                                                          35.


                    MOTEL MANAGER
          I just maintain the workings.

                    SANDY
          Shelly's thesis is supported by --

                     ROGER
                 (interrupting)
          "Flimsy, outdated evidence."

                     SANDY
                 (slightly taken aback)
          I beg your pardon?

                    ROGER
          Not in my opinion. I liked the Silly-
          Putty (or S'morestozium, in fact). I'm
          quoting what he said.

Roger points at J.J. The motel manager laughs suddenly. J.J.
frowns. He responds to Roger:

                    J.J.
          Your son's project very well might've
          killed us all today, by the way.

                     SANDY
                 (gently icy)
          Coming from the family that brought us
          the electromagnetic death-ray.

                     J.J.
                 (obviously)
          It's a weapon. Of course, it's lethal.

                     SANDY
                 (twizzling her drink)
          So you admit it!

                    J.J.
          Not to mention Brainiac's flag. Is he
          trying to provoke World War III?

                    ROGER
          The jet propulsion belt is eminently
          safe. I'd allow an eight-year-old boy to
          operate it. In fact, I did (Ricky's
          cousin Chip), and he broke the solo-
          flight altitude record.

                     MOTEL MANAGER
                 (pause)
          They're strange aren't they? Your
          children. Compared to normal people.
                                                          36.


On this point: J.J., Sandy, and Roger all sharply agree (and are
even slightly emotional contemplating the subject).

EXT. MOTEL CABIN #7. EVENING

Between the burned ruin and the canvas tent: the five teenagers
sit together in a circle on the ground (under a pink oleander,
near a humming air conditioning unit). Dinah rapidly explains
the rules of a game:

                    DINAH
          After that, the second person says the
          name the first one said and adds another;
          then the third person says both plus a
          new name; then the next person keeps
          going and so on in a circle. It's a
          memory game. Get it?

                    RICKY
          I think so.

                    DINAH
          I'll start. Cleopatra.

                     RICKY
                 (pause)
          Cleopatra, Jagadish Chandra Bose. Like
          that?

Dinah nods. The five teenagers adjust and re-situate themselves,
physically and mentally. Shelly picks up where Ricky left off:

                    SHELLY
          Cleopatra, Jagadish Chandra Bose, Antonie
          van Leeuwenhoek.

                     CLIFFORD
                 (eagerly)
          Cleopatra, Jagadish Chandra Bose, Antonie
          van Leeuwenhoek -- Paracelsus.

Clifford raises an eyebrow. Woodrow points to each player as he
recalls his/her name:

                     WOODROW
          Cleopatra, Jagadish Chandra Bose, Antonie
          van Leeuwenhoek, Paracelsus --
                 (pointing to himself)
          Kurt Gï¿½del.

A murmur of appreciation. Camera now pans from one player to the
next as Dinah lists:
                                                            37.


                     DINAH
          Cleopatra, Jagadish Chandra Bose, Antonie
          van Leeuwenhoek, Paracelsus, Kurt Gï¿½del --
                 (pause)
          William Bragg.

Clifford and Ricky interject immediately:

                       CLIFFORD
          Which one?

                    RICKY
          There's two.

Dinah quickly clarifies:

                    DINAH
          William Henry Bragg.

A murmur of acceptance. Exchanged looks as the group prepares
for the next round. Ricky pauses, then recites speedily:

                    RICKY
          Cleopatra, Jagadish Chandra Bose, Antonie
          van --

Ricky hesitates an instant. Everyone chimes in just as he
remembers:

               RICKY                             OTHERS
Leeuwenhoek.                      Leeuwenhoek.

                     RICKY
                 (continuing)
          Paracelsus, Kurt Gï¿½del, William Henry
          Bragg.

Ricky nods, satisfied. He says suddenly (as Dinah chimes in):

               RICKY                           DINAH
Lord Kelvin.                      Add the new one.

                     SHELLY
                 (immediately)
          Cleopatra, Jagadish Chandra Bose, Antonie
          van Leeuwenhoek, Paracelsus, Kurt Gï¿½del,
          William Henry Bragg, Lord Kelvin --

Pause. Shelly looks to Dinah and says, embarrassed/excited:

                    SHELLY
          -- Midge Campbell. (Can I say her?)
                                                            38.


                     DINAH
                 (impassive)
          As long as she's a real person. You can
          say anybody you like.

                    CLIFFORD
          Cleopatra, Jagadish Chandra Bose --

             DINAH                           SHELLY
Including my mother.             She's my idol.

                     CLIFFORD
                 (bristling)
          My turn. Jagadish Chandra Bose, Antonie
          van Leeuwenhoek, Paracelsus, Kurt Gï¿½del,
          William Bragg (the father), Lord Kelvin
          (the mathematical physicist), Midge
          Campbell (your mother) --
                 (pleasantly)
          -- Konstantin Tsiolkovsky (the rocket
          scientist).

A murmur of annoyance. Ricky says, uncertain:

                    RICKY
          I don't know if this game works with us.
          Brainiacs, I mean. I think it might go on
          forever.

                    SHELLY
          I don't mind. In my school, nobody'd play
          this game with me in a million years --
          plus the names'd be too obvious.

                    CLIFFORD
          I know my next one. Diophantus.

A murmur of further annoyance. Dinah proposes to Woodrow:

                     DINAH
          Try it backwards, Brainiac. Say the new
          one first.

Woodrow pauses. He points to himself first:

                  WOODROW
          Hj Tokiyuki.

Woodrow then goes carefully backwards through the group:

                    WOODROW
          Konstantin Tsiolkovsky, Midge Campbell,
          Lord Kelvin, William Henry Bragg, Kurt
                    (more)
                                                          39.

                    WOODROW (cont'd)
          Gï¿½del, Paracelsus, Antonie van
          Leeuwenhoek, Jagadish Chandra Bose --

Woodrow stops at Dinah. Pause.

                       WOODROW
          Cleopatra.

EXT. DESERT. EVENING

Outside the fence at the rear the motel: the posse of cowboys
and ranch hands have pitched camp for the night (an open fire, a
circle of sleeping bags, saddles and tack, a strummed banjo)
fifty yards into the desert. They perch on rocks and rucksacks,
smoking cigarettes and sipping at bottles of beer. They watch as
June swings one leg then another over the fence, agile, and
strides out toward them. She arrives, glaring.

                    JUNE
          Put out that cigarette, Dwight.

One of June's pupils (a boy with a cowlick) puffs a last puff at
a cigarette butt. He darts it into the fire.

                    JUNE
          You men should be ashamed of yourselves.

The cowboys and ranch hands exchange looks: puzzled, amused,
embarrassed. June presses the question:

                       JUNE
          Are you?

Montana stands up. He interjects, courtly and (perhaps) honest:

                    MONTANA
          Yes, ma'am. We didn't give him that.

            MONTANA                              JUNE
   (clarifying)                      (coolly)
That cigarette.                   Didn't you?

                    MONTANA
          No, ma'am. He just must've got it his own
          self.

Montana smiles/laughs. June looks to the boy. The boy shrugs.
June and Montana study each other briefly. June says (less
cool):

                     JUNE
          I almost believe you.
                 (to the boy)
          Let's go.
                                                          40.


The boy reluctantly drags himself to his feet, nodding to the
men as they murmur polite goodbyes. Montana tips his hat to
June. June rolls her eyes. She takes the boy by the hand and
starts briskly back toward the fence.

INT. MOTEL CABINS #9/10. EVENING

Cabin #9: Midge paces back and forth in the open window of her
bathroom while she reads aloud from a screenplay, rehearsing
herself (half off-book):

                    MIDGE
          "Was I ever there? Was I ever there? Was
          I ever there? Did you actually --"

Cabin #10: a roller-blind zings open in another bathroom window
(directly opposite, just across a narrow driveway). Inside,
Augie has set up a darkroom with blankets and strings, a red
lamp and enlarger, etc. He looks out, wiggling and fanning a
damp print. Midge pauses and sees him.

                    MIDGE
          Memorizing my lines.

                      AUGIE
          Uh-huh.

Augie reverses the photograph to show: "Midge Campbell Eating a
Waffle." Beautifully lit, perfectly natural, wildly flattering.
Pause.

                      MIDGE
          Approved.

Augie turns away to hang the print (next to his photo of the
atomic explosion) to dry with clothespins. Midge sits down
inside her window. Augie sits down inside his.

                    MIDGE
          I do a nude scene. Want to see it?

Silence. Augie suddenly flickers alert:

                    AUGIE
          Did I say, "Yes?"

                    MIDGE
          You didn't say anything.

                    AUGIE
          I meant, "Yes." My mouth didn't speak.
                                                          41.


                    MIDGE
          It's a monologue. It starts when I turn
          off the shower.

Midge stands up. She walks into the bathroom, turns on the
shower, takes off her clothes, steps into the bathtub, closes
the curtain, and stands under the running water for five
seconds. She turns off the shower. She steps back out. She wraps
herself in a towel. Backlit in the bathroom doorway, she
recites:

                    MIDGE
          "When you first picked me out of the
          secretarial pool, I had a hundred and
          eleven dollars in my bank account. I
          lived alone with a cat and a parakeet in
          a one-room dishwater flat. I sold the
          DeSoto to lend you the down-payment for
          my engagement ring. It was spring... I'm
          not sore: I know you're a good man. I'm
          not sorry: I never deceived you. Remember
          me as a blur in the rearview mirror. Was
          I ever there? Did you actually see me? I
          can't even see myself anymore -- but here
          I am.

Midge unwraps her towel, dangles it slowly, then lets it slip to
the floor. She stares at Augie. Augie stares back, serenely
frozen. Midge says, hopeful/resigned/determined:

                    MIDGE
          Let's get divorced."

Silence. Midge says eventually:

                    MIDGE
          It'll be done tastefully, of course. We
          cut to the back of my legs when the towel
          falls down.

                     AUGIE
                 (pause)
          Sometimes they do a stunt-double.

                     MIDGE
                 (undecided)
          Sometimes. I don't know if I like beards,
          by the way.

Augie nods. He puts his pipe into his mouth and lights it. Midge
flips two switches on the wall: turning off the overhead
bathroom light and turning on a pair of dressing-table mirror-
tubes, which illuminate her softly in blue-ish. She reaches for
                                                             42.


a peignoir -- but Augie interrupts (reacting to the entire
vignette):

                    AUGIE
          Oh. Can I take another picture? Not for
          publication.

                     MIDGE
                 (long pause)
          I thought you never ask permission.

Augie shrugs. Midge holds still (for a very long exposure) as
Augie snaps the photograph. Midge puts on her dressing gown and
returns to her window-seat. She confides to Augie:

                    MIDGE
          I prefer to play abused, tragic
          alcoholics, and one day I'll probably be
          discovered lifeless in an overflowing
          bathtub with an empty bottle of sleeping
          pills spilled all over the floor -- but
          the sad thing is: I'm actually a very
          gifted comedienne.

                     AUGIE
                 (genuinely)
          That's true.

                    MIDGE
          Are you married?

                    AUGIE
          I'm a widower -- but don't tell my kids.

                    MIDGE
          Why not? I mean: I wasn't going to. I'm
          sorry.

                    AUGIE
          Thank you. They do know, by the way --
          but just barely.

EXT. MOTEL CABIN #10. EVENING

In an alley behind the cabin: Andromeda, Pandora, and Cassiopeia
crouch on their knees as they dig a small hole in the ground
with a fork, a spoon, and a popsicle stick. The Tupperware salad
bowl waits beside them. In the background: a mint-green Cadillac
Eldorado convertible curls from the highway, rolls into the
driveway, and stops. Pandora commands her sisters:

                    PANDORA
          Put the potion in it.
                                                             43.


Stanley (in golfing attire, as before) gets out of the car and
slowly approaches as: Andromeda produces the previously-prepared
ashtray of salt, pepper, and mustard; Pandora decants the
remaining drops of a jar of vinegar into the mixture; and
Cassiopeia stirs it all together, then scoops out bits at a time
with the popsicle stick, shoveling the potion down the hole in
the ground as she invents/recites:

                    CASSIOPEIA
          Friskity, triskity, briskity, boo;
          knickerty, knockerty, tockerty, too! And
          with this spell: Mama comes back --
          alive!

The girls wait for a moment while nothing happens. Stanley
pauses just behind them. Andromeda pronounces:

                    ANDROMEDA
          God save these bones.

The girls place the bowl into the hole, throw dead flowers on
top, and begin to spoon/fork dirt in after. Stanley says
finally:

                    STANLEY
          What's in the Tupperware?

The girls look up at their grandfather, startled, and stare.
Stanley studies the expressions on their faces; then says,
slightly heartbroken:

                    STANLEY
          He finally told you.

The girls turn back to the gravesite. Stanley comes closer and
kisses the girls on the tops of their heads, one by one. Pandora
murmurs as he does this:

                    PANDORA
          Who's this old man?

                    CASSIOPEIA
          Poppy, I think.

                     STANLEY
                 (deeply offended)
          You don't remember me?

                    ANDROMEDA
          I remember his smell.

Stanley frowns. He sniffs at his hands and arms. He makes an
official decision:
                                                          44.


                    STANLEY
          We're not going to abandon my daughter at
          a motel in the middle of the desert
          buried next to the communal showers.

Stanley kneels down, removes the flowers, and begins to
carefully dig up the bowl. The girls, at first frozen in shock,
quickly go into a frenzied panic, squealing and shrieking:

          CASSIOPEIA                         PANDORA
You're ruining the funeral!      He's making her go to hell!

Andromeda strikes a threatening pose and clarifies the
situation, seething:

                    ANDROMEDA
          If you torture us, we'll sacrifice you.

Stanley pauses as he is about to pull the bowl up from the dirt.
He sighs.

                    STANLEY
          I understand. Thank you for your --
          clarity. I'll tell you what: we'll leave
          her alone in the ground until tomorrow
          morning. Then we'll exhume the
          Tupperware, bring her with us in the
          Cadillac, and bury her again this weekend
          in the backyard next to the seventh hole
          at Rancho Palms where I live in a
          beautiful house with a swimming pool.
          Agreed?

The girls whimper and nod. Stanley re-buries the salad bowl.

                    STANLEY
          Let's hope a coyote doesn't dig her up in
          the meantime. Nothing we can do about it,
          anyway. Look at that.

Stanley points as a fireworks display, modest but exciting,
commences in the desert just beyond the motel grounds. Stanley
and the three girls watch, bereft and dazzled.

EXT. MOTEL OFFICE. EVENING

As the fireworks continue to pop: Montana retrieves a toothbrush
from the toiletries vending machine, then pauses to study
another machine which advertises "Deeds." He asks the motel
manager, curious/suspicious:

                    MONTANA
          What do you swap for out a'this
          pertickler jukebox, mister?
                                                          45.


                    MOTEL MANAGER
          Of course, I understand. This machine:
          sells land.

                    MONTANA
          Land, you say?

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          Yes, indeed. The properties just beyond
          these cottages, in fact.

The motel manager motions toward a desolate, cactus-studded flat
in the near distance. Montana asks, dubious:

                    MONTANA
          Out a' this here soder-pop machine?

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          Yes, indeed.

                    MONTANA
          Well, now, I ain't callin' you a liar to
          your face, but that sounds to me like
          some kind a' toadswindle.

                     MOTEL MANAGER
                 (slightly defensive)
          Of course, I understand. It's not a
          toadswindle. You put in the money: you
          receive a notarized deed to the land.

                     MONTANA
                 (skeptical)
          How big a spread?

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          For $10 in quarters: approximately half a
          tennis court.

EXT. METEOR CRATER. NIGHT

The congregation has re-assembled, this time seated on picnic
blankets. They sip and crunch a midnight snack of root beer and
peanuts. Dr. Hickenlooper stands at the lectern (flanked by her
assistant on one side of the dais and General Gibson on the
other), uplit by a reading lamp. She begins enthusiastically
over the P.A. speaker:

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          Tonight you're in for a real treat. I
          don't know how many of you ever observed
          an Astronomical Ellipses before. Can we
          get a show-of-hands?
                                                           46.


Only Dr. Hickenlooper herself raises her hand. She looks
surprised.

                     DR. HICKENLOOPER
          Nobody! Wow. OK, well, what you're going
          to see is a very simple, "dot, dot, dot":
          three pin-points of light inside your
          refracting-box, which may not sound very
          exciting, at first -- until you consider
          how those dots managed to transmit
          themselves across a thousand billion
          miles of space onto that little scrap of
          black cardboard. Twice every fifty-seven
          years, when the earth, the sun, the moon,
          and the galactic plane of the Milky Way
          all combobulate along the same angle of
          orbital interest, the radiant energy of
          three neighboring stellar systems induces
          a parallel ecliptic transit; thus, all
          but proving the hypothesis of Celestial
          Flirtation. The hitch, of course, is that
          the math doesn't work! But maybe one of
          you, one day, will be the genius who
          solves that problem.
                 (checking her watch)
          The event will begin in thirty seconds.

Dr. Hickenlooper turns off the reading lamp. The young people
and most of the adults stand up eagerly and begin to fit home-
made, cardboard box and wax-paper viewing devices over their
heads. The military personnel use similar but industrial-
manufactured, weapons-grade versions of the apparatus (nylon and
stainless-steel fittings; calibrated dials and gauges).
Andromeda, Cassiopeia, and Pandora use shoeboxes. Stanley sits
next to them with his own normal-sized box/device.

                     DR. HICKENLOOPER
          Remember: if you look directly at the
          ellipses rather than through your
          refracting-box, not only will you not
          actually see the effect -- but you'll
          burn the dots straight into your retina,
          probably permanently. I know that for a
          fact, because they're still burned into
          mine from when I was eleven-going-on-
          twelve. That's when I realized I wanted
          to be an astronomer, which is another
          story.
                 (urgently)
          Here we go!

Dr. Hickenlooper puts on her own viewing device.

CUT TO:
                                                          47.


Woodrow's face inside his box. He squints. Through a tinfoil
sieve on top: a beam of amber light shines neatly, diagonally,
onto a black construction-paper rectangle masking-taped to the
cardboard directly in front of his eyes. A small, red dot
appears -- followed by a white one, then a blue -- along a
perfectly-spaced, horizontal line. Woodrow says, pleased:

                    WOODROW
          There it is.

All around the crater: "ooh's" and "ahh's" among the children,
parents, and military personnel. Enchanted laughter and dazzled
whispering. The breeze blows. An owl hoots. Crickets chirp.
Bells ring at the railroad crossing as another freight train
locomotes in the dark. Dr. Hickenlooper provides a bit of
commentary, speaking into the microphone from inside her box at
a whisper:

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          These are just marvelously luminous
          colors, aren't they? Very exciting! Who
          doesn't see it?

                     FRECKLED BOY
                 (airily)
          I don't! I just see a staple.

Dr. Hickenlooper lifts her viewing device and looks to the
freckled boy. She studies him briefly as he looks up at her with
the box on his head. She twists the box 180 degrees backwards.
The freckled boy stiffens and yelps:

                    FRECKLED BOY
          Yipe! It works.

Dr. Hickenlooper puts her box back on. On another/nearby picnic
blanket: Midge tilts the box off her head and looks at Shelly
(under her own box with her movie magazine tucked under her
arm). She asks bluntly:

                    MIDGE
          Are you Shelly?

                     SHELLY
                 (startled)
          Huh? Yeah!

                    MIDGE
          I'm your idol. What's your rank?

Shelly tilts back her box. She says, transfixed:

                    SHELLY
          Commanding-secretary.
                                                           48.


Shelly points to a patch on her uniform. Midge takes the
magazine out of Shelly's hand and flips pages.

                    MIDGE
          I was a Cookie Trooper, myself.

Midge finds a staged photo of herself (in a kitchen, wearing an
apron, frying eggs) and autographs it. She hands back the
magazine. Shelly says, awed:

                    SHELLY
          Really? Wow! What'll they say in Squad
          75?

Suddenly: the radio telescopes spinning above the crater all
rotate in unison to face in a single, fixed direction. Dead
silence.

CUT TO:

Woodrow's black construction-paper rectangle again. A fourth dot
(green, unexpected) appears in position immediately to the right
of the original three. Woodrow frowns.

                    WOODROW
          Hm?

Woodrow tilts the box off his head and looks up.

Woodrow's mouth opens. His eyes widen. He holds his breath and
stares, frozen. A faint, green glow begins to irradiate his
face, slowly increasing in luminosity.

Dr. Hickenlooper, her assistant, General Gibson, the aide-de-
camp, Augie, Midge, and the other gathered people begin to
remove their own viewing devices and watch the sky -- agog.

From above: a green-and-neon hexagonal spacecraft exactly the
diameter of the crater silently descends and hovers at an
altitude of fifty feet. It twists and bounces slightly,
creaking. After a moment, a fan or motor of some kind engages,
whirs briefly, then shuts off again.

The group of statues below watches, stunned.

A round hatch on the underside of the spacecraft irises open. A
metallic pole jolts out with a clank, extends downwards three
feet, and stops. A ladder-rung folds out, buzzing, at the bottom
of the pole and locks into position.

Among the watching group: hyperventilation, difficulty
swallowing, a few tears. General Gibson's hand instinctively
moves to the sidearm holster on his belt. He snaps off the
safety.
                                                          49.


From the hatch again: a foot (size approximately 20-AAA,
red/orange, nine-toed) pokes down and cautiously tests the
ladder-rung. Then: a second foot; followed by (as the pole
slowly and silently extends a few feet further downward before
pausing again) two extremely long, double-jointed legs; a brief,
carapaced torso; spindly arms; protracted, scraggly fingers; and
a pleasant, red/orange, tiny-mouthed face with large and
immediately lively (even anxious) eyes.

The alien looks down at the group from its perch, hesitant.
(Roger and J.J. exchange a look: "See?"/"Yes.") The alien twists
a handle-grip, and the pole descends like an elevator (at first,
gingerly; then quickly). When it finally stops: the end of the
pole (and the alien) sways gently one foot above the ground near
the center of the crater. With a little plickity-plack, a small
tripod unfolds at the end of the pole, touching its three ends
onto the hard-packed dirt.

The alien looks to the group -- as if awaiting permission. It
steps onto the earth. Pause. It crouches and leans, reaching
toward the rebar cage. Pause. It lifts off the cage like a cake-
dome (weightless), sets it aside, and places its hands on the
sides of the meteorite. Pause. It picks up the rock and looks
all around for any objection.

Augie slowly raises his camera to his eyes. He corrects exposure
and focus. The alien looks to him, adjusts its pose, and waits.
Augie snaps "the picture." He lowers his camera, eyes locked
with the alien, and winds the film. Woodrow looks to his father,
impressed.

The alien makes a quiet sound as if clearing its throat. It
tucks the meteorite under its arm and steps back onto the ladder-
rung. The pole rapidly ascends/retracts all the way up and into
the spacecraft. The hatch spirals shut. The green-and-neon
lights flicker to a new configuration. The vessel rises straight
up a thousand feet, twists one rotation in place, then cruises
away at an angle high above and across the moonlit desert before
vanishing into space.

Silence. Augie, at a loss, finally states the obvious:

                    AUGIE
          The alien stole the asteroid.

No one moves.

INT. TELEVISION STUDIO. EVENING

Black and white.

The host resumes his narration, spotlit in the dark, as the
lights slowly come up on a new set: a writer's study in a
shingled beach house. It contains a typewriter stand; a braided
                                                          50.


rug; a pine table; wicker chairs; neatly over-stuffed bookcases;
faintly homoerotic paintings of horses, steers, cowboys, ranch
hands; and a whirring electric fan. Tall reeds shiver in the
window before a painted theatrical background of dunes and surf
at dusk. Sounds of rolling waves and seagulls.

                    HOST
          The character of Augie Steenbeck in the
          imaginary tale of our production was to
          become famously and indelibly connected
          to the actor who "created" the role -- a
          former carpenter discovered in a bit part
          by the play's director, Schubert Green.

The playwright, perspiring in his Western costume, finishes
clacking away at a letter and zips it out of his machine just as
a middle-aged secretary enters with a rack of buttered toast on
a tray.

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          I've finished my correspondence,
          Analisse. Please, bring me my cocktail
          and my pill.

                     SECRETARY
                 (correction)
          Remember, the gentleman --

                     PLAYWRIGHT
                 (horrified)
          Oh, no.

                    SECRETARY
          -- referred by Mr. Green. Has arrived --

                     PLAYWRIGHT
                 (determined)
          Send him away. Put him up at the Salty
          Skipper (or the Lighthouse Inn) and tell
          him to come back in the morning --
                 (important:)
          -- but not before eleven.

The secretary sighs. She exits, and the actor who plays Augie
almost immediately enters the room. He wears a soldier's khaki
uniform -- but in a stylish/relaxed fashion (contrary to
regulation): cap at a tilt, necktie loose, sleeves rolled up,
sweat under the armpits. The host explains:

                    HOST
          The occasion of the first meeting between
          playwright and player is now (in our
          fanciful telling) a matter of theatrical
          lore and legend. Setting: late autumn,
                    (more)
                                                          51.

                    HOST (cont'd)
          late afternoon, a seaside village outside
          the grand metropolis.

The host exits. The playwright finally notices the actor in his
study and says, startled:

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          Oh, no, again. I beg your pardon. I'm
          sorry: did Miss Watson not inform you?
          I'm indisposed.

                    ACTOR/AUGIE
          I know, but the ice cream would've
          melted.

The actor plants a large, oblong mass -- paper-wrapped, twine-
bound, frayed and tattered -- onto the table with a thump. He
draws a slightly frightening lock-blade hunting knife from an
ankle strap and begins to hack and chop at the package. The
playwright retreats a step, concerned.

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          What's this?

                     ACTOR/AUGIE
                 (hacking/chopping)
          I think it's the one you like. Gooseberry
          Wriggle from the Frosty Spoon on East
          Rotterdam. I wrapped it in sawdust,
          newspaper, and peanut shells.

From beneath the layers of thermal insulation: a carton of ice
cream begins to emerge. The playwright quickly recognizes a
gooseberry-motif on the lid. He is simultaneously deeply
touched, mildly suspicious, and uncomfortable. He says,
tentatively playful:

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          You shouldn't waste your spending money
          on an old fool like me.

                     ACTOR/AUGIE
                 (shrugs)
          They gave me ten dollars bus fare, so I
          bought us a half-bucket, hitch-hiked, and
          pocketed the change.

The actor flips the sizable blade shut, then (from a trouser
pocket) unfolds a collapsible camping spoon. He lifts the
carton's lid and plugs the spoon into the cream-and-purple
substance. He holds out a bite to the playwright's mouth. The
playwright hesitates, then leans forward and eats the spoonful
of ice cream like a child. Clearly, it has survived the journey
intact:
                                                          52.


                    PLAYWRIGHT
          Cool and delicious.

The actor and the playwright trade the spoon back and forth, two
strangers eating together in silence. The playwright says
eventually, politely:

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          How long have you been in the service?

                     ACTOR/AUGIE
                 (frowns)
          The service. What service? I don't know
          what you're talking about.

                     PLAYWRIGHT
                 (stiffening)
          Well, unless I've been deliberately
          misinformed, I believe those stripes
          indicate the status of a Ranking
          Corporal, 2nd class.

                     ACTOR/AUGIE
          Oh. No.
                 (giggles)
          I'm G.I. #3 in "Bugle Boy Blows the
          Blues." Was, anyway. We closed tonight.

                     PLAYWRIGHT
                 (intrigued)
          I see. Property of the wardrobe
          department.

                     ACTOR/AUGIE
                 (pause)
          Not anymore.

The actor declines the return of the spoon and begins to wander
around the edges of the room, studying book titles and old
snapshots as the playwright continues to eat.

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          How was it, by the way?

                     ACTOR/AUGIE
                 (distracted)
          The play? It stunk. You mind if I crack
          open a window?

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          Not at all. It's sweltering, isn't it?

The actor struggles briefly at the window, pressing and jabbing
the rickety, wooden sash. The playwright watches him, doubtful.
                                                          53.


                     PLAYWRIGHT
          Even the daisies and buttercups are
          drooping in the --
                 (suddenly)
          That window sticks a bit.

The actor smashes his fist through a pane, flips a latch, then
(now easily) slides the window open. He looks to the playwright;
both laugh out loud. Pause. The actor asks, pointed but gentle:

                    ACTOR/AUGIE
          Why does Augie burn his hand on the
          Quicky-Griddle?

                     PLAYWRIGHT
                 (long pause)
          Well, I don't even know, myself, to tell
          you the truth. I hadn't planned it that
          way -- he just sort of did it while I was
          typing. Is it too extraordinary?

                     ACTOR/AUGIE
                 (short pause)
          I guess the way I read it: he was looking
          for an excuse why his heart was beating
          so fast.

                     PLAYWRIGHT
                 (enchanted)
          Oh. What an interesting sentiment. I love
          that idea. Maybe he should say it? It's a
          very good line.

The actor shrugs. He shakes his head. The playwright agrees:

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          I suppose not. Not necessary.

The playwright watches as: the actor takes down one of the
playwright's freshly pressed shirts from a laundry box on a
shelf; pulls out the packing-tissue and begins to stuff it under
his shirt (padding for a fake belly); peels off a fake moustache
and sticks it into one pocket; replaces it with a fake beard
tugged out of another; rubs typewriter ink into his eyebrows;
exits into a small closet and closes the door -- then reemerges
with the familiar Swiss camera looped around his neck. He now
speaks in Augie's quiet, regional/city accent:

                    ACTOR/AUGIE
          "It's a fact: we're not alone. The alien
          stole the asteroid. `Long-thought to be a
          lunar splinter fragmented from the lesser
          moon of the hypothetical planet Magnavox-
          27; now considered a rogue pygmy
                    (more)
                                                          54.

                     ACTOR/AUGIE (cont'd)
          cometette.' (According to the
          encyclopedia.) Obviously, she would've
          said something to him. I'm certain of it.
          Your mother, I mean. She would've gotten
          him to tell us the secrets of the
          universe or yelled at him or made him
          laugh. She would've had a hypothesis. You
          remind me of her more than ever. She
          wasn't shy. You'll grow out of that. (I
          think your sisters might be aliens, too,
          by the way.) When I met your mother she
          was only nineteen. She was smoking a
          cigarette/reading a paperback/taking a
          bath in a swimsuit on a rusty fire escape
          a flight and a half below my camera
          position. Sometimes I sometimes --
                 (searching)
          I sometimes -- I sometimes still think I
          still hear her -- here --
                 (with a finger to his ear)
          -- breathing -- in the dark.

The actor looks up at the ceiling. Long pause. When he finally
looks back down, his eyes are red, his face is tear-streaked,
his voice cracks:

                    ACTOR/AUGIE
          Who knows, Woodrow? Maybe she is in the
          stars."

The actor sits down in one of the wicker chairs. He folds his
hands in his lap -- then looks suddenly to the playwright,
breaking the spell. The playwright stares. He says slowly:

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          Normally, I'd offer my advice and
          suggestions, but your interpretation is
          so perceptive and precise -- anything you
          do is bound to be dramatically true.
          You're perfect. I don't think there's
          anything else to say.

Silence. The actor takes off his shirt, then his trousers and
socks. The lights dim except in the window. The host re-enters
frame:

                    HOST
          Often, it is the unexpected human
          connections which lead to the surprises
          of artistic discovery.

The beach house rotates away on a turntable to reveal another
new set:
                                                             55.


INT. SLEEPING COMPARTMENT

A sleeping compartment (with sitting room and bed already made
up) on an overnight passenger train. The actress who plays
Midge, dressed in a silvery skirt suit and matching hat,
surrounded by small suitcases, hand baggage, folded fur coat,
sits with her legs tucked under her as a porter serves a bottle
of beer with a chilled glass. Outside: the train accelerates
through a cavernous metropolitan station (as rendered by a
painted theatrical backdrop winding by on rollers). A
stationmaster blowing a whistle slides by; followed by the head
of a young man, twenty-two, clean cut, sprinting on the platform
alongside the sleeping car. (He is the actor who plays Woodrow.)
He hops a bit, trying to peek into the window, then speeds
ahead, out of view. An instant later, we clear the station and
enter the darkness of the tunnel that will deliver the train out
of the city.

                    HOST
          Players of the stage, a tribe of
          troubadours and non-conformists; they
          lead unconventional, sometimes dangerous,
          lives which nourish and elevate their
          artistic aspirations -- and illuminate
          the human condition. Next: ten weeks
          later, the eve of "Asteroid City's" first
          public preview, a drawing room onboard
          the Apache Plainsliner bound for the
          California coast.

The porter exits. The actress lights a cigarette and opens the
pages of a fashion magazine. A knock on the door. The actress
looks up, frowning, and waits.

                       ACTRESS/MIDGE
          It's open.

The door swings to the wall with a clack. The sprinting young
man lunges into the compartment, gasping and panting, and bangs
the door shut behind him. He is dressed Ivy League, winter. He
says immediately, without catching his breath:

                    YOUNG MAN/WOODROW
          Schubert says you got to come back.

The actress stares at the young man evenly. Pause.

                    ACTRESS/MIDGE
          If I'm so important, why isn't he here
          himself?

The young man shrugs, still gasping, and makes an educated
guess:
                                                          56.


                    YOUNG MAN/WOODROW
          Probably too busy. Too busy to go chasing
          after you. They sent me. You know who I
          am?

                    ACTRESS/MIDGE
          I think so. Understudy.

                    YOUNG MAN/WOODROW
          Understudy. That's right. Let me just --

The young man digs into his pockets, producing various scraps of
paper, ticket stubs, dollar bills, bits of lint, some of which
fall onto the floor. He isolates two specific tiny, folded,
creased, damp, tattered documents. He displays one in each hand.

                     YOUNG MAN/WOODROW
          He said if you're crying, I read you this
          one.
                 (swapping pages)
          That's not it. Here it is.
                 (swapping again)
          If you're hopping mad, I read you this
          one.

Silence. The actress says, stony:

                    ACTRESS/MIDGE
          Give me both.

The young man shakes his head, frazzled, and attempts to clarify
the options:

                    YOUNG MAN/WOODROW
          Not what he said. He said if you're --

                    ACTRESS/MIDGE
          Give me both.

The young man hands the actress both documents, two hands to two
hands. She reads out loud from the first one:

                    ACTRESS/MIDGE
          "Tell her she's a stuck up, low-class
          snob -- but she's got no good reason to
          be. If she sasses you, sass her back.
          Tell her she's a borderline neurotic with
          an Achilles Heel complex."

The actress looks at the young man. He nods, confirming the
message, and jams his hands into his pockets, shifting from foot
to foot. The actress places the document face up on the table
and moves on to the second one:
                                                          57.


                    ACTRESS/MIDGE
          "Tell her she relies on her beauty like a
          wobbly crutch. It's her deepest weakness.
          Tell her she's got the potential for
          genuine greatness -- but I say with
          absolute certainty: she will never
          achieve it."

The actress places the second document down next to the first.
She looks to the young man again.

                    ACTRESS/MIDGE
          Anything else?

The young man, nodding again, slightly less winded now, reaches
inside his coat and withdraws a sealed envelope.

                    YOUNG MAN/WOODROW
          Uh-huh. He said if you're cool and
          collected (which I think is what I think
          you seem to be), then that means you
          probably really don't want to come back,
          and I got to give you this.

The young man holds out the envelope. The actress, cool and
collected, does not move.

                     ACTRESS/MIDGE
          Read it.

                     YOUNG MAN/WOODROW
                 (shaking his head again)
          Not what he said. He said this one's
          private. Just the two of you. He said --

The young man swallows and gives up. He opens the envelope and
reads, start to finish:

                    YOUNG MAN/WOODROW
          "Dear Kim, I'm sorry I shouted and called
          you a spoiled bitch and a minor talent
          (and broke your glasses and threw them
          out the window). Given that I have always
          considered you to be the most
          consummately gifted living actress and a
          person of great intelligence and
          character, these statements (and actions)
          do not accurately reflect my true
          feelings. Yes, I may be a `manipulative
          snake', as you once characterized me
          behind my back (you see, I do have my
          sources) -- but I love you like a sister,
          other than that one time in the bathroom
          the day we met which has never been
                    (more)
                                                          58.

                    YOUNG MAN/WOODROW (cont'd)
          repeated, as we both know. I never meant
          to hurt you or insult you or offend you
          in any way -- only to try with the few
          tools I have at my disposal to do my job
          which is: to make it work. Forgive me. We
          open tomorrow night, with or without you.
          Without: our entire devoted company will
          suffer complete disaster and tragic
          calamity -- as will a brilliant, fragile
          genius named Conrad Earp. With: you will
          enjoy the triumph of your career, which
          does not matter in the least. All that
          matters is: every second of life on stage
          -- and our friendship. Your servant, your
          director, and (if I may) your devoted
          mentor. -- Schubert Green."

The sound of the train changes suddenly (loud to soft) as it
exits the tunnel. A new winding/painted backdrop reveals the
city, now distant, at dusk. Snowflakes flurry and telephone
poles whisk by. The actress unpins her hat, removes it, and
loosens her hair. She looks the young man up and down, head to
toe. Silence.

                    ACTRESS/MIDGE
          What's your name, understudy?

The young man stares, dumb. The host re-enters the frame and
looks from young man to actress to camera. He raises an eyebrow.

                    HOST
          They continued through the night as far
          as Ohio, then disembarked and caught the
          return flight arriving two hours prior to
          curtain. (The talented understudy
          immediately replaced the original
          "Woodrow.")

Scene to black. The host remains lit. He continues:

                    HOST
          Schubert Green, born Shylock
          Grzworvszowski.

INT. THEATRE PROSCENIUM

Behind the host, the lights come up on the theatre proscenium
set -- turned around to face the audience, with painted backdrop
depicting the empty house: seats, boxes, balconies. A wiry,
intense, shirtless man works onstage repainting a backdrop. He
is the director.
                                                          59.


                    HOST
          Actor, immigrant, former student of the
          great theatrical guru Saltzburg Keitel.

The director wanders into the wings: adjusting a lamp; resewing
the trim of a costume; briefly touching-up a young actor's old-
age make-up.

                    HOST
          Known for his limitless energy, his
          voracious enthusiasms (a well-known
          actress described him, sexually, as: "an
          animal -- specifically a rabbit"), and
          his long, deep, and intimate relationship
          with success.

The director arrives at a makeshift bedroom installation -- fake
walls, folding bunk, sink basin, toaster and hot plate -- in a
deep backstage corner behind crates, carts, and flats (all
labeled: Property of "Asteroid City Scenic Department" and
vaguely recognizable as the luncheonette). In the background, a
hulking stagehand finishes stapling lace curtains along the
sides of a fake window. They both survey the space.

                    DIRECTOR
          What do you think, Lunky?

                      STAGEHAND
                  (deepest basso)
          Good.

The director begins to shadow-box in the corner. Off-screen: an
annoyed/perplexed woman's voice says:

                    POLLY (O.S.)
          I'm not going to ask what the hell's
          going on here.

In the fake doorway: a woman in a raincoat. Black hair with
bangs, bright red lipstick, late thirties. She is Polly.

                    HOST
          His wife, Polly, left him for an All Star
          second baseman during the first week of
          rehearsals.

The stagehand stares, uneasy. The director milks it:

                    DIRECTOR
          My living quarters.

Polly moves slowly into the room, eye-balling the stagehand as
he sheepishly evaporates. She reaches into her pocket and
withdraws a legal-sized envelope:
                                                          60.


                       POLLY
          Sign this.

The director stiffens. He takes the envelope. He opens it and
studies a document. He says, overwhelmingly relieved:

                    DIRECTOR
          It's Clark's report card.

Polly, rearranging the decor slightly (swapping a vase, shifting
a chair), responds, distracted:

                    POLLY
          Uh-huh. What'd you think it was?

                    DIRECTOR
          I thought maybe we were already divorced.

                    POLLY
          Oh. Not yet -- but eventually.

The director signs the document, slips it back into the
envelope, and returns it.

                    DIRECTOR
          He made the honor roll again.

Polly nods. She looks to the director with her knuckles on her
hips.

                    POLLY
          I'm staying at Diego's penthouse; Clark's
          at my mother's; the apartment's empty.
          Why don't you just go home?

                     DIRECTOR
                 (simply)
          I don't think I should be alone in a
          building with real windows.

The director looks out through the fake window. (Outside: more
crates.) He continues:

                    DIRECTOR
          Props makes my lunches and dinners. Make-
          up cuts my hair and shaves me. Costumes
          washes my dungarees. This is where I
          belong. For now.

The director reaches into a box on the table and brings out a
model of the stage-version of the hexagonal spacecraft. He flips
it over, studying the design. Polly examines it over his
shoulder.
                                                          61.


                    POLLY
          Much better. Did you do the green?

The director grunts. He presses a button on the model. It
illuminates, dazzling. Polly looks pleased. She says gently:

                    POLLY
          It's been a great ten years, Schubert. I
          don't regret a second of it. Clark still
          loves you. I still love you.

                     DIRECTOR
                 (pause)
          But not like before.

                     POLLY
                 (pause)
          But not like before.

Polly kisses the director softly on the lips and exits directly
through the fake doorway. The director starts doing chin-ups
from a costume rack as the host re-enters the frame:

                    HOST
          Schubert Green lived in the scenic bay of
          the Tarkington Theatre for all 785
          performances of "Asteroid City." Dark
          nights, he stayed in the Governor's Suite
          of the Nebraska Hotel.

Polly pokes her head back in. The director freezes mid-chin-up.

                    POLLY
          One last note: when Midge makes her exit
          in Act 3, Scene V -- try having her say
          the line after she closes the door.

The director pictures this. He nods. He says wisely:

                     DIRECTOR
          I will.

Polly smiles. She exits again and closes the fake door. The
director stands and waits. Through the fake door, Polly says:

                     POLLY
          Goodbye.

The director laughs/cries. Polly's diminishing footsteps echo on
the cement floor. Lights to black.

EXT. HIGHWAY. DAY

Widescreen/color.
                                                             62.


A reinforced military barricade encircles and isolates the
entire town. Signs on roadblocks read:

               Strict Quarantine!
               Do Not Enter (or Exit)
               by order of
               the United States Military-science
               Research and Experimentation Division

Armed guards occupy security-posts on low scaffoldings at
frequent intervals along the perimeter. A fleet of parked jeeps
and troop transports provide additional fortification. Civilian
vehicles in a queue on the highway wait to U-turn, one by one,
as soldiers direct them to alternate routes.

INT. OBSERVATORY. DAY

The classroom. The school desks now seat military officers,
technicians, and scientific advisors (including the business
executive). Soldiers stand in the corners with rifles
shouldered/sidearms holstered. A door opens. General Gibson
strides into the room followed by his aide-de-camp (handcuffed
to a metallic briefcase). He sits at the table in front and
studies his audience.

(NOTE: throughout this and subsequent scenes, a slightly
stunned/dazzled quality of uncertainty and disbelief informs the
speech, deportment, and expression of the entire cast.)

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          I've just informed the president. He
          authorized me to read and implement the
          provisions of National Security Emergency
          Scrimmage Plan X. Here I go.

The aide-de-camp snaps open the briefcase and passes a nylon
pouch to General Gibson. The general opens it and removes a
laminated envelope with a plastic seal. He reads a message on
the cover:

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          "The following Top Secret directive was
          mandated into law on July first, 1950."

General Gibson cracks open the seal and withdraws a thin stack
of multicolored card-stock pages. He begins:

                     GENERAL GIBSON
          "In the event of unforeseen engagement
          with intelligent life-form or -forms from
          any planet not specifically defined as
          our `earth', be advised to initiate the
          following protocols:
                 (flipping to next card)
                     (more)
                                                          63.

                     GENERAL GIBSON (cont'd)
          One. Confirm said life-form is not
          operating under the guidance of any
          hostile foreign terrestrial government."
                 (pause)
          Well, I don't think he's working for the
          Russians (or the Red Chinese) -- but you
          never know.

                    AIDE-DE-CAMP
          He certainly didn't give me that
          impression.

                     GENERAL GIBSON
                 (flipping to next card)
          "Two. Confirm the life-form does not
          intend to annex, colonize, vaporize, or
          expropriate the resources of the
          sovereign territories of the United
          States of America."

                    AIDE-DE-CAMP
          I doubt it. He took the asteroid and
          went.

                     GENERAL GIBSON
                 (flipping to next card)
          "Three. Identify and detain all possible
          witnesses and place them under group
          arrest for a period of no less than one
          week (defined as seven calendar days),
          during which time they be subjected to a
          prescribed battery of medical and
          psychological examinations and cross-
          examinations."

                    AIDE-DE-CAMP
          Standard procedure. Already in the works.

                     GENERAL GIBSON
                 (flipping to next card)
          "Four. Secure the site; cease the
          dissemination of information; collect and
          transport the totality of evidence to a
          hermetically-enclosed/deep-underground
          secret storage facility; and publicly
          deny all aspects of the event including
          its existence for a period of no less
          than 100 years (defined as 36,500 days)."
          End of directive.

         GENERAL GIBSON                    AIDE-DE-CAMP
   (unsurprised)                    (also unsurprised)
That's pretty clear.             Ha.
                                                          64.


General Gibson passes the stack of cards to the aide-de-camp. He
immediately begins running them through a hand-cranked paper
shredder. The business executive raises a question:

                    EXECUTIVE
          What do we tell them?

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          Who?

                    EXECUTIVE
          The Junior Stargazers. The Space Cadets.
          The moms and dads.

                     AIDE-DE-CAMP
                 (cheerily)
          Midge Campbell.

A murmur among the soldiers. Whispers and tittering. General
Gibson thinks. He suggests:

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          Tell them -- it didn't happen?

Silence. Sudden laughter. General Gibson raises an eyebrow, then
says gravely:

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          No, obviously, we'll need to formulate a
          suitable cover story.

INT. LUNCHEONETTE. DAY

The cafï¿½ has been converted into a temporary triage/evaluation
unit with dividing screens and curtains on racks and rails. The
rivet trailer is parked in front, linked to the front door by a
transparent plastic corridor (which ripples in the breeze).
Guards outside, scientists inside.

"Station #1: Medical": J.J. and Clifford lie on adjacent
gurneys, restrained, wired, and intubated to a bank of
beeping/blinking devices registering pulse rate, body
temperature, blood oxygen, radiation levels, brainwave patterns,
etc. A technician in a lab coat makes a notation on a clipboard
and exits. Clifford points to a button on a gadget overtly
warning-labeled "DO NOT PRESS" and asks slyly:

                    CLIFFORD
          You dare me? To press that button.

             J.J.                              CLIFFORD
No.                                 It's an experiment.
                                                             65.


                     J.J.
                 (seething)
          I'll break your neck.

"Station #2: Psychological": Sandy and Shelly sit side by side
at a table facing another technician in a lab coat. The
technician displays inkblots and records Shelly's responses in a
ledger:

                    SHELLY
          That's an alien doing jumping jacks.
          That's an alien in a top hat. That's an
          alien climbing a ladder. That's an alien
          on a racehorse.

"Station #3: Debriefing": black felt tenting encloses an
interrogation booth where Ricky sits in a metal chair under a
hot lamp. Two military detectives pace and circle around him.
Roger sits silent in the corner, frowning.

                    DETECTIVE #1
          Let's take it from the top.

                     RICKY
                 (frustrated)
          I told you fifty times. The alien picked
          up the asteroid --

                     DETECTIVE #2
                 (correction)
          Alleged alien.

                     RICKY
                 (exploding)
          I know what I saw!

         DETECTIVE #1                            RICKY
It's called a meteorite.            An extraterrestrial being.

                     DETECTIVE #2
                 (holding up a tiny canister)
          This is a microfiche of your school
          newspaper. Your byline accompanies an
          article criticizing the principal's
          disciplinary methods. Who were your
          sources?

                     RICKY
                 (steely)
          I was in the sixth grade --

                     DETECTIVE #2
                 (angry)
          Just answer the question!
                                                          66.


                     RICKY
                 (enraged)
          -- and I will not name names!

The driver/bodyguard, in his corner working on another crossword
puzzle, looks up briefly. He takes a bite of a grilled cheese
sandwich and resumes his puzzling.

INT. SILO. DAY

A scaffold perch at the top of a metallic staircase. Woodrow
stares through a massive telescope out the open bay of the
silver dome. He looks up from the eyepiece and squints at the
sky, intense and determined. He adjusts focus. On a platform one
flight below: Dinah stands next to Dr. Hickenlooper in front of
a large model of the meteor crater. She asks:

                    DINAH
          Which way did he go?

Dr. Hickenlooper indicates with a pencil: a low position
immediately over the crater; straight up above as high as she
can reach; diagonally across the cylindrical room; out the
porthole window.

                     DR. HICKENLOOPER
          He went from here. To here. To here.
                 (quietly/entranced)
          To I don't know where.

Woodrow refers to an enormous astronomical map wallpapering all
around the interior of the tower as he recalls loudly:

                     WOODROW
          My mother couldn't remember which was
          which, so she made up her own
          constellations.
                 (pointing)
          That one's "The Coat Hanger." That one's
          "The Leaky Faucet." Over there's "Fried
          Egg with Spatula."

                     DINAH
                 (pensive)
          My mother is a constellation. At least,
          part of one. A Swiss scientist named a
          hypothetical star after her.

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          What's it called?

                    DINAH
          Midge Campbell X-9 Major.
                                                          67.


Dr. Hickenlooper withdraws a reference book from a shelf and
flips pages as she mutters:

                       DR. HICKENLOOPER
             I'll look it up.

                        WOODROW
                    (loudly again)
             Is she interested in astronomy? Your
             mother.

                       DINAH
             Not exactly. She's interested in stardom.
             I don't mean that as a criticism, by the
             way. It's her job. (To be famous.)
             Anyway: I'm tired of her face, but I love
             her voice. She should do more radio.

                        DR. HICKENLOOPER
                    (still studying her book)
             I never had children. Sometimes I wonder
             if I wish I should've. (I discovered a
             hypothetical star myself, by the way.)

               DINAH                            WOODROW
Which one?                          Where is it?

                        DR. HICKENLOOPER
                    (pointing)
             Right there. It's partly blocked by that
             burnt-out lightbulb.

Dr. Hickenlooper looks up and down at wallpaper/book in search
of Midge Campbell X-9 Major. Dinah ascends the metallic
staircase. Woodrow's eyes widen as he sees her clanking up to
join him. He chivalrously hops aside to allow her to look
through the eyepiece. As Dinah leans into the telescope:
Woodrow, transfixed, reverse-bumps into a lever -- then (to
catch his balance) slaps his hand onto panel of buttons and
knobs -- which sends the entire upper tower into a brisk,
humming, shuddering rotation. Woodrow and Dinah straighten,
alarmed. The telescope and platform begin to rise/dip and
counter-spin. Dr. Hickenlooper shouts up from below:

                       DR. HICKENLOOPER
             Don't spin it around! I had it how I want
             it. What's happening?

Woodrow and Dinah quickly study the levers, buttons, and knobs.
They exchange a look. Together: they click, twist, and pull. The
telescope halts with a jolt, banging the two teenagers into each
other. They regain their balance and brush themselves off,
slightly breathless. An interesting silence; then Woodrow and
Dinah simultaneously jolt back toward the telescope, bonk their
                                                          68.


heads together, then look at each other half-laughing/half-
dazed.

                       WOODROW
          After you.

Woodrow motions for Dinah to go first again. He watches (in
close-up) as she peers through the telescope: her eyelashes
flutter; she licks her lips; she says in a soft voice:

                    DINAH
          Sometimes, I think, mentally: I feel more
          at home outside the earth's atmosphere.

                     WOODROW
                 (enchanted)
          Me, too.

INT. MOTEL CABINS #9/10. DAY

Cabin #10: Augie's roller-blind zings open. He is working in his
darkroom again, wiggling and fanning another damp print. Cabin
#9: Midge, memorizing lines in her own window, watches from
across the narrow driveway. Pause.

                    MIDGE
          Did it come out?

                     AUGIE
                 (abruptly)
          All my pictures come out.

Augie reverses the photograph to show: the alien holding the
meteorite (perfectly posed/exposed). Midge squints.

                    MIDGE
          I mean the other one.

Augie hesitates. He looks at the photo. He realizes:

                       AUGIE
          Oh.

Augie hangs the photo of the alien (with clothespins) and
produces another new/damp print: the nude of Midge outside her
bathroom. It is also excellent. Midge nods, pleased,
appreciative. Augie clips it up next to the alien. He sits down
in his window. Midge asks abstractly:

                    MIDGE
          You feel different?
                                                             69.


                     AUGIE
                 (pause)
          I don't feel anything at all.

                    MIDGE
          Me, neither.

Silence. Midge says suddenly:

                    MIDGE
          I'm not a good mother.

                     AUGIE
                 (hesitates)
          Uh-huh.

                    MIDGE
          I love my daughter, but I'm not a good
          mother, because (unfortunately for her):
          she's not my first priority. On account
          of there's always already the thing I
          plan to do next. I love my daughter, by
          the way.

             AUGIE                              MIDGE
Of course. You said.               I love all my children.

                    MIDGE
          We have a magical time when we're
          together. I have another girl and a boy.
          They live with my second ex-husband in
          Utah.

                       AUGIE
          Uh-huh.

                    MIDGE
          He rarely sees them, either.

                       AUGIE
          Uh-huh.

                     MIDGE
          I wish, at least, I felt guilty -- but I
          don't experience that emotion (if I
          understand it correctly). I've played it,
          of course.

                     AUGIE
                 (surprised only mildly)
          You never feel guilty? In real life.
                                                          70.


                    MIDGE
          Not to my knowledge. I think because of
          my history with violent men (which began
          with my father, brother, and uncles).

Augie pauses, curious/sympathetic, before choosing not to pursue
the matter:

                    AUGIE
          Uh-huh. There's always already the thing
          I plan to do next, too. Usually, it's a
          war. Nobody can compete with that. Can
          they?

                     MIDGE
                 (pause)
          Probably not. (I did a U.S.O. tour once.
          It was thrilling.)

Augie tamps and lights his pipe while Midge studies him
carefully. Finally, she understands:

                    MIDGE
          I think I see how I see us.

                       AUGIE
          Hm?

                    MIDGE
          I mean, I think I know now what I realize
          we are: two catastrophically wounded
          people who don't express the depths of
          their pain -- because we don't want to.
          That's our connection. Do you agree?

                     AUGIE
                 (long pause)
          Uh-huh.

Augie starts to faintly laugh. He mumbles:

                    AUGIE
          Let's change the subject.

Midge laughs faintly, too. A knock on the door of her bedroom.

                       MIDGE
          It's open.

The sound of the door jolting open (off-screen). Stanley's voice
calls out:

                       STANLEY (O.S.)
          Hello?
                                                          71.


                     MIDGE
          In here.

Pause. Stanley's head peers in through the bathroom door. (He
does not see Augie in the window.)

                    STANLEY
          Hello! I'm just your neighbor. Stanley
          Zak. I wanted to make sure you and your
          daughter have everything you might need,
          at the moment.

                    MIDGE
          Thank you. I think so.

                    STANLEY
          What a strange experience this is, isn't
          it? I went to law school with your former
          agent, by the way.

            MIDGE                             STANLEY
Mort?                              Mort.

                    STANLEY
          Yes. Mort. Oh --

Stanley has now seen Augie. He frowns slightly and observes the
two photographs: alien and nude. About one or the other he says
simply:

                    STANLEY
          That came out.

                     AUGIE
                 (abruptly again)
          All my pictures come out.

The driver/bodyguard appears next to Stanley, suspicious.
Stanley frowns. Midge signals: "I'm OK." The driver/bodyguard
shrugs. Stanley says coolly:

                    STANLEY
          Anyway, as I say, we're just across the
          driveway, as my son-in-law seems to have
          established. Send my best wishes to Mort.

            MIDGE                              STANLEY
I will.                            And his family.

                    MIDGE
          If and when we're permitted contact with
          the outside world -- though I don't speak
          to him, to tell you the truth.
                                                          72.


                    STANLEY
          I love your hairdo like that.

                       MIDGE
          Thank you.

Stanley lingers.

EXT. MOTEL GARDEN. DAY

The schoolchildren (notebooks and pencil-cases laid out in front
of them) occupy one of the picnic tables. June (a bit frazzled)
stands next to a blackboard illustrated with a brightly colorful
rendering of the solar system in multiple chalk colors. The two
chaperones stand by, uneasy. June begins:

                     JUNE
          I'm going to attempt to proceed with the
          lesson plan I originally prepared. Just
          to keep orderliness under the
          circumstances. I expect some of our
          information about outer space may no
          longer be completely accurate; but,
          anyway, there's still only nine planets
          in the solar system, as far as we know.
                 (reluctantly)
          Billy?

The freckled boy has raised his hand. He blurts:

                    FRECKLED BOY
          Except now there's a' alien!

                     JUNE
                 (calmly)
          True, by all appearances. Nevertheless:
          Neptune. Fourth largest planet (by
          diameter), Neptune orbits the sun only
          once every 165 years.
                 (reluctantly)
          Bernice?

The little girl with curly red hair has raised her hand. She
blurts:

                    CURLY-HAIRED GIRL
          Maybe the alien went there!

                     JUNE
                 (calmly)
          Well -- maybe? I don't think anybody
          knows where the alien went or came from.
                 (reluctantly)
          Dwight?
                                                             73.


The boy with the cowlick has raised his hand. He says
philosophically:

                    BOY WITH COWLICK
          At first, I thought the alien was kind of
          sneaky, but now I think he was probably
          nervous to go to earth. He's never been
          here before, I betch'a.

                     FRECKLED BOY
                 (debating)
          Then why'd he steal our asteroid then, if
          he's such a gentleman?

                     JUNE
                 (calmly)
          These are all reasonable questions; but,
          at this time, let's stick to Neptune --
          because I haven't had time to prepare any
          lesson plan on this subject we're talking
          about.

                       FRECKLED BOY
          The alien!

                     JUNE
          The alien, yes. Neptune: named after the
          god of the sea, of course -- and, by the
          way, I'm not trying to evade your
          questions. I want to emphasize: you're
          safe. We all are. (Here on earth.) Your
          parents have been notified of, at least,
          something. America remains at peace.
                 (surprised)
          Yes, Montana?

Montana appears next to June. He takes off his cowboy hat and
holds it like a suitor as he proposes:

                    MONTANA
          I'd like to parley a notion, myself, if I
          could, June.

June hesitates. She nods. Montana addresses the class in a
gentle, thoughtful, protective voice:

                    MONTANA
          I figger this here alien come from a
          tribe we don't know nothin' `bout, do we?
          Anything we say'd just be pure
          speckalation! But I tell you what I
          reckon: I reckon that alien don't mean no
          harm `tall. I reckon he just took hisself
          down here to have a looksy at the land
                    (more)
                                                            74.

                     MONTANA (cont'd)
          and the peoples on it. In the spirit a'
          expluration. See, I don't look on a
          feller alien all suspicious-like. No, he
          ain't American; no, he ain't a creature a
          God's green earth; but he's a creature a
          somewheres -- and so're we. Now let's
          show the ol' feller some hospitality, and
          if he turns out to be a dirty dog (which
          I reckon he ain't), well, that'll be a
          job for the United States armed forces,
          and they ain't never lost a war yet.
          Thanky-do.

Montana puts his hat back on and smiles to June and the
schoolchildren. June looks at Montana with both puzzlement and
admiration. She touches his dusty arm briefly. She says to the
group:

                    JUNE
          I agree with Montana. Now: Neptune.

EXT. DESERT. DAY

Outside the fence at the rear the motel: the motel manager
explains the terms of a sale to J.J. as Clifford stands beside
them doing tricks with his yo-yo. J.J. clutches a paper from the
vending machine: "Deed of Sale."

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          You see that wonderful crackly-patch
          right out there between the dead cactuses
          and the dried-up riverbed?

                    J.J.
          I think so.

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          That's your parcel.

The motel manager sweeps his arm slowly toward the barren
nothingness, marveling. J.J. squints.

                    J.J.
          How much of it? Do I own.

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          Well, it's actually an interesting
          financial mechanism. You don't
          technically own anything outright. You
          own stock in the town. In the form of a
          loan. With a fifty year maturity rate.
          Then: at the end -- the loan is forgiven.

Clifford pockets his yo-yo. He chimes in:
                                                          75.


                    CLIFFORD
          You dare me?

J.J. ignores the question. He continues the real-estate
discussion:

                    J.J.
          How about water?

                     MOTEL MANAGER
                 (hesitates)
          Of course, I understand. There isn't any.
          This is a desert opportunity.

J.J. looks skeptical. Clifford attempts to reiterate:

           CLIFFORD                             J.J.
You dare me?                     I heard you.

                    CLIFFORD
          It's an experiment.

                     J.J.
                 (interrupting)
          I don't care anymore. I dare you, or I
          don't dare you. It doesn't matter. Do
          what you wish. I give up.

Clifford goes silent, wounded. The motel manager, curious, looks
back and forth between father and son. J.J. asks Clifford
sincerely:

                    J.J.
          What's the cause? What's the meaning? Why
          do you always have to dare something?

                     CLIFFORD
                 (long pause)
          I don't know. Maybe it's because I'm
          afraid, otherwise, nobody'll -- notice --
          my existence -- in the universe?

Silence. J.J. turns to the motel manager. The motel manager nods
slowly. They both turn to Clifford. Clifford shrugs and
sniffles. He looks like he is about to cry (but does not).
Suddenly:

             J.J.                         MOTEL MANAGER
Dare you what?                   Dare you what?

                     CLIFFORD
                 (sadly)
          To climb that cactus out there.
                                                            76.


               J.J.                       MOTEL MANAGER
   (adamant)                        (worried)
Lord, no.                        Please, don't.

Clifford, perhaps out of a sense of obligation, walks
deliberately toward a high cactus in the middle-distance.

EXT. HIGHWAY. DAY

Augie and Stanley flank Woodrow (in a mystified reverie) as they
walk down the center of the roadblocked highway through the
little town. The three girls trail behind them, stalking a
dragonfly with a butterfly net. Further in the background:
troops drill patrol along the barricades.

                    AUGIE
          If I sleep on a cot instead of the sofa-
          bed that might leave room for me to set
          up a darkroom in the pool house. Is that
          possible? As a compromise.

                    STANLEY
          Depends on the measurements. I can
          actually carpool the girls to school by
          golf-cart, you know. If I cut across the
          fourteenth tee.

                     AUGIE
                 (surprised)
          It's that close? The elementary.

                     WOODROW
                 (in disbelief)
          How can you two even think about this?
          The world will never be the same!

Augie and Stanley nod, sympathetic rather than deeply engaged.
Woodrow continues:

                    WOODROW
          What happens next? Nobody knows! Will he
          visit us again? Will he speak to us? What
          will he say? Why did he steal our
          asteroid? Was it ours in the first place?
          Does he -- like us? Nobody knows!

                    AUGIE
          That's true.

                     WOODROW
                 (re: the universe)
          What's out there? Something! The meaning
          of life? Maybe there is one!
                                                          77.


Stanley frowns. He says to Woodrow:

                    STANLEY
          I hope you're still Episcopalian.

Woodrow ignores this question. He says, electrified:

                    WOODROW
          You took his picture, Dad!

Augie nods. He shrugs. Woodrow drifts away, looking up at the
sky and writing in his notebook. Augie sits on the hood of his
now-derelict station wagon. He says to Stanley genuinely:

                    AUGIE
          You really want us, Stanley?

                     STANLEY
                 (bluntly)
          No, but you need me.

                     AUGIE
                 (long pause)
          She did love me, you know.

                    STANLEY
          Who says she didn't? I've been on my own
          for twelve years, after all (and,
          remember: my wife drank herself to
          death).

                     AUGIE
                 (pause)
          I don't know what that means.

Stanley sits next to Augie. He says carefully:

                    STANLEY
          In my loneliness (or, perhaps, because of
          it), I've learned not to judge people; to
          take people as I find them, not as others
          find them; and, most of all, to give
          complete and unquestioning faith to the
          people I love. That doesn't include you,
          but it included my daughter -- and your
          four children -- and you're welcome to
          stay with me as long as you wish, whether
          I like it or not (which I don't, by the
          way).

Augie grits his teeth. Stanley takes a deep breath. Augie stage-
whispers:
                                                             78.


                    AUGIE
          Stop helping us. We're in grief!

Stanley, puzzled, stage-whispers back:

                      STANLEY
          Me, too!

Stanley grips Augie by the shoulders and shakes him gently in
mock/genuine frustration. Woodrow suddenly re-appears. He points
a finger at his father.

                    WOODROW
          Are you planning to abandon us?

Long pause. Stanley looks baffled. Augie says eventually:

                    AUGIE
          I was (as a temporary measure) --

                      STANLEY
                  (stunned)
          What?

                    AUGIE
          -- but I decided against it.

                    WOODROW
          I knew it. I sensed it.

                      STANLEY
          I didn't!

Augie and Stanley debate briefly, aside:

             AUGIE                              STANLEY
I would've hired a babysitter.      I'm the grandfather. I'm not
In addition to you.                 the wet nurse.

Augie returns his attention to Woodrow. He clarifies:

                    AUGIE
          I'm not planning to abandon you. Anymore.
          Even as a temporary measure (which is all
          it ever would've been).

                    WOODROW
          I forgive you for considering it.

Woodrow drifts away again. Augie takes a deep breath. He looks
at the girls and asks:

                    AUGIE
          What about you?
                                                          79.


                    ANDROMEDA
          We're going to sleep under the floor of
          the house in a secret prison powered by
          electricity from an erupting volcano.

                    AUGIE
          OK. Who needs to pee? Let's go inside and
          order some chili.

EXT. METEOR CRATER. EVENING

The crater floor remains decorated exactly as last seen during
the alien's brief visit (including picnic blankets, root beer,
peanuts, viewing devices); but hundreds of tags and markers
stuck in the dirt now indicate names, times, distances, and
other statistical information. An empty divot where the
meteorite previously sat is now taped off and isolated -- as is
the pair of peculiar footprints next to it. Guards stand at
attention while men in rubber suits search with metal detectors,
scan with Geiger counters, take rock and soil samples, analyze
atmospheric conditions, etc. Cameras and recording devices
flutter and hum. General Gibson, at his lectern, explains to a
small team of assembled scientists and military personnel
(including Dr. Hickenlooper) over the P.A. speaker:

                     GENERAL GIBSON
          For the official Military-science
          Division archive: this is a forensic re-
          enactment of events that occurred on this
          site exactly sixteen hours ago --
                 (checking his watch)
          -- now.

General Gibson puts on his viewing device. Everyone else follows
suit.

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          Dr. Hickenlooper, would you like to
          repeat the remarks you said yesterday? To
          the best of your recollection.

                     DR. HICKENLOOPER
          Well, I began by describing various
          properties of the Astronomical Ellipses.
                 (suddenly)
          What's that noise?

The general silence has been broken by the sound of prominent,
crunchy chewing. Dr. Hickenlooper lifts the corner of her
viewing device and peers out. From inside the box on his head,
the aide-de-camp says with his mouth full of food:

                    AIDE-DE-CAMP
          Fritos.
                                                          80.


                     DR. HICKENLOOPER
                 (frowning)
          Were you eating those last night? When
          the alien came.

                    AIDE-DE-CAMP
          How could I? The snack machine was turned
          off.

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          Then give it.

The aide-de-camp reluctantly hands his package of corn chips to
Dr. Hickenlooper. Dr. Hickenlooper clears her throat and presses
on:

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          Twice every fifty-seven years, when the
          earth, the sun, the moon, and the
          galactic plane of the Milky Way --

                     AIDE-DE-CAMP
                 (suddenly)
          What's that contraption?

The aide-de-camp points to: the mechanic, nearby, cradling the
cast-iron assembly which fell from the underside of Augie's car.
He explains to Dr. Hickenlooper and General Gibson:

                    MECHANIC
          I've never seen an assembly of this kind
          on any American make or model (nor
          foreign, actually) in all my experience.
          I thought maybe it might be some kind of
          hot rod power-booster (unusual for a
          station wagon); but, then, after what
          occurred and so on, I figured it's my
          duty to bring it to the attention of the
          proper authorities. In case it comes from
          outer space.

General Gibson examines the assembly. He muses:

                     GENERAL GIBSON
          It might be from space, or it might be
          from earth. Impossible to tell.
                 (to the executive)
          What do you think?

                     EXECUTIVE
          No idea.
                                                          81.


                     GENERAL GIBSON
                 (to the aide-de-camp)
          Put it in a box and mark it: "unknown."

                    AIDE-DE-CAMP
          Yes, sir. Like we always do.

Dr. Hickenlooper looks at General Gibson and the executive,
skeptical. She continues her address (now eating corn chips as
she speaks):

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          After that, I said something like, "Boy,
          aren't these just luminously marvelous
          colors?" Then I warned everybody not to
          look right at it.

EXT. HIGHWAY. NIGHT

After dark. The middle of the town, quiet and empty. A guard
sits in a chair in front of the telephone booth. A sign on a
barricade behind him reads:

               Public Telephone Service Suspended
               Official Use Only
               by order of
               the United States Military-science
               Research and Experimentation Division

The night wind blows gently. Moths flutter under a roadside
lamp. Clifford saunters out of the dimness, practicing his yo-
yo. (His face and hands are now covered with numerous, tiny
bandages.) He approaches the guard and smiles.

                    CLIFFORD
          Evening, Chief.

The guard nods, blank. Clifford finishes an offhand trick then
pockets his yo-yo.

                    CLIFFORD
          Can I ask you to stick this dime in the
          payphone for me, please?

Clifford holds out a dime. The guard answers, stony:

                    GUARD
          All public telephone service has been
          suspended until further notice.

                    CLIFFORD
          I know it. The thing is: right before the
          hubbub yesterday, I made a trunk call to
          my cousin (long distance), and the
                    (more)
                                                            82.

                    CLIFFORD (cont'd)
          operator let me owe the surcharge because
          all I had was three pennies. I don't feel
          right stealing from the telephone
          company.

Silence. The guard shrugs. He takes the dime, unlocks/opens a
special triple-latch on the door of the telephone booth, and
reaches inside to slip the dime into its slot. The dime clinks.
The payphone clacks. The guard closes the door and re-locks it.

Camera booms up: through the roof of the little booth,
diagonally along the telephone line up to the top of a nearby
utility pole, horizontally across the parking area and motor
court gardens -- to a jerry-rigged junction spliced with clamps,
clips, and electrical tape which branches off and descends down
(via what appears to be a pair of automobile jumper cables) into
Tent #7.

The exterior wall of the tent dissolves away to reveal, inside:
a tidy, canvas motel room on a wooden platform floor with
braided rugs. It is furnished exactly as the surrounding cabins.
Ricky, wearing a radio headset, listens at a complicated,
improvised telecommunications console. Woodrow, Dinah, and
Shelly sit beside him, waiting. Woodrow and Dinah are in mid-
conversation, animated:

                    DINAH
          Although it might convey a different
          meaning on his planet.

                    WOODROW
          That's true -- if he even has a planet,
          by the way! He might be nomadic?

Dinah considers this. Ricky's eyes light up. He holds up his
finger for silence.

                    RICKY
          Operator? Kismet-nine, seven-seven-oh.
          Station to station. Thank you.

Clifford pokes his head through the tent flap. Ricky looks at
him and nods. Clifford slips inside.

SPLIT-SCREEN:

On one side: Ricky with the others in   the tent. On the other
side: a telephone rings in a suburban   kitchen. A carefully
coiffed and made-up mother, svelte in   a stylish dress and apron,
dries her hands on a dishtowel as she   picks up the receiver and
answers, a bit sharp:

                    MOTHER
          Hello? Who's calling?
                                                          83.


                    RICKY
          Good evening, Mrs. Weatherford. It's
          Ricky Cho. May I have a word with --

                     MOTHER
                 (checking her watch)
          It's after nine, Ricky. He's already
          drinking his Ovaltine. Can't this wait
          until tomorrow?

                     RICKY
                 (unfortunately)
          I'm afraid not, Mrs. Weatherford. I
          wouldn't disturb you if it weren't of the
          utmost importance to the Weekly Bobcat. I
          just need a minute of his time.

                     MOTHER
                 (pause)
          All right, Ricky. Hold the line.

The mother exits. Ricky looks to his colleagues; Clifford
distributes Raisinets; Shelly asks Woodrow and Dinah (a bit
blunt):

                    SHELLY
          Some kind of romance between the two of
          you?

Woodrow turns bright red again. He says:

                      WOODROW
          Who?

                      SHELLY
          Who. You.

                     DINAH
                 (coolly)
          Who?

            SHELLY                             WOODROW
   (louder)                           (flustered)
You know who!                      Us?

                     DINAH
                 (evenly)
          We only met yesterday.

                     WOODROW
                 (mortified)
          I feel she doesn't like me in that way.
                                                             84.


Dinah looks at Woodrow briefly, calm. Woodrow takes a deep
breath. Shelly concludes:

                    SHELLY
          Uh-huh. Well, I think you're pretty
          smart, but I think you're pretty dumb.

In the meantime: a sleepy boy in pajamas and a tartan bathrobe
enters the kitchen (sipping a glass of warm/chocolatey milk with
a straw) and picks up the receiver:

                      SLEEPY BOY
          Hello?

                       RICKY
                   (to the others:)
          Shh!
                 (to the sleepy boy:)
          Skip? Ricky. We got a scoop.

INT. TELEVISION STUDIO. DAY

Black and white.

The lights come up on another set: a rehearsal space in a
converted cast-iron building (formerly a garment factory).
Sprung wooden floor, low platform stage, pressed tin ceiling.
One wall of expansive windows looks out at a painted theatrical
background depicting an elevated train station platform; another
wall is fully mirrored like a dance studio. Wooden chairs seat
twenty students, aged twenty-five to forty, well-dressed in
jackets with neckties and skirts with scarves. Some smoke
cigarettes. One of them is the host. He turns briefly to address
camera:

                    HOST
          The first hints of the future existence
          of "Asteroid City" were revealed during a
          special seminar scheduled at the
          playwright's request.

The teacher/guru, shoeless in a narrow suit of Communist origin,
bright-eyed and commanding, sits perched on a threadbare but
comfortable settee. He begins (in faintly mittel-Europa accent):

                    TEACHER
          Conrad Earp: how can we help you?

The playwright, seated on the stage alone, answers, hopeful:

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          Well, the thing is, Saltzie: I'd like to
          make a scene where all my characters are
          each gently/privately seduced into the
                    (more)
                                                          85.

                     PLAYWRIGHT (cont'd)
          deepest, dreamiest slumber of their lives
          as a result of their shared experience of
          a bewildering and bedazzling celestial
          mystery --

                     TEACHER
                 (interrupting)
          A sleeping scene.

                     PLAYWRIGHT
                 (reluctantly clarifying)
          A scene of sleeping -- but I don't know
          how to write it!

                    TEACHER
          Yet.

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          Yet. I thought, perhaps, if you and your
          wonderfully talented pupils just
          improvise? Something might reveal itself.

The host stands up and moves among the students as he continues
his narration:

                    HOST
          Who wasn't going to be famous? On any
          given day: roll-call in Saltzburg
          Keitel's classroom was a now-dazzling
          list of undiscovered luminaries:

The host points out various notable figures: the actor who plays
Roger, the actress who plays Shelly, the actor who plays the
mechanic, the actor who plays Montana, the actress who plays
Midge -- and (behind them all, in the corner of the back row,
seated on the floor, near the door) the actor who plays Augie.

                    HOST
          Linus Mao, Lucretia Shaver, Walter
          Geronimo, Asquith Eden, Mercedes Ford.
          Even, unofficially: Jones Hall.

The actor who plays Roger raises his hand to ask:

                    ACTOR/ROGER
          What's it about? The play.

                     PLAYWRIGHT
                 (pause)
          Infinity, and I don't know what else.

The actress who plays Shelly chimes in:
                                                          86.


                    ACTRESS/SHELLY
          Is there a title?

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          I'm torn. Perhaps: "The Cosmic
          Wilderness." Do you like that one?

                    ACTRESS/MIDGE
          Not really.

The room echoes in agreement. The actor who plays Montana asks
(in an English accent):

                    ACTOR/MONTANA
          What's the other? Title, I mean.

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          It's the name of the small town on the
          California/Nevada/Arizona desert where
          the story takes place.

The teacher rises from his settee and begins to prowl the stage,
ruminating. He demands:

                    TEACHER
          Who here has fallen asleep ever onstage
          during a live performance? In front of a
          paying audience.

A voice answers from an unseen corner of the room:

                    DIRECTOR (O.S.)
          Me.

The teacher and his students all turn to see: the director. The
director smiles slyly. So does the teacher. Students whisper.

                    DIRECTOR
          I spent the first three-quarters of Act
          II of "The Welterweight" on a massage
          table with no lines until the last minute
          and a half. One night, I nodded off.

                    TEACHER
          On purpose? You did this.

                    DIRECTOR
                (absolutely not)
          No.

                    TEACHER
          Did you miss your cue?
                                                          87.


                    DIRECTOR
          Almost. I heard it, and I woke up (very
          scared) -- but I knew my lines.

Silence. The teacher tips an imaginary hat.

                    TEACHER
          Good morning, Schubert.

                    DIRECTOR
          Good morning, Saltzie.

                    TEACHER
          What brings you here today? Haven't seen
          you in six weeks.

                    DIRECTOR
          "Lavender and Lemons" opened last night
          (to very good, I might say, raves, by the
          way). I'm available.

Both the teacher and the director now look significantly to the
playwright: available. The director says quietly:

                    DIRECTOR
          Hello, Connie.

The playwright nods, demure and pleased. The host, now
behind/beside the teacher, director, and playwright, interjects:

                    HOST
          What did he teach? Example:

                    TEACHER
          Sleep: is not death. The body keeps busy
          (breathing air, pumping blood, thinking).
          Maybe you pay visit to your dead mother.
          Maybe you go to bed with ex-wife. Or
          husband! Maybe you climb the Matterhorn.
          Connie: you wake up with new scene three-
          quarters written in the head already.
          Schubert: you wake up with a hangover.
          Important things happen. Is there
          something to play? I think so. Let's work
          on scene from the outside in: be inert --
          then dream.

On cue: the students all go inert -- then dream: yawning,
snoring, sleepwalking/sleeptalking, tossing and turning, singing
a lullaby, thumbsucking with a security blanket, etc. The
teacher turns to the playwright and says, shouting over the din:
                                                          88.


                    TEACHER
          Where are we, Connie? And when. Talk to
          us!

                     PLAYWRIGHT
                 (startled)
          All right.

As the playwright speaks, the lights begin to slowly fade --
leaving him alone, spotlit in the darkness:

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          One week later. Our cast of characters'
          already tenuous grasp of reality has
          further slipped in quarantine, and the
          group begins to occupy a space of the
          most peculiar emotional dimensions.
          Meanwhile: the information blockade
          spearheaded by General Grif Gibson has
          been, it appears, incomplete...

EXT. HIGHWAY. DAY

Widescreen/color.

In all directions encircling the town: an ambush of press and
public (beyond/outside the military barricades). Television
crews; radio reporters; newspapermen and women; visitors by the
dozen with picnic baskets and transistor radios; vendors selling
popcorn, toy meteorites, and postcards of a crude but generally
accurate rendering of the alien with the meteorite tucked under
his arm (evidently based on Ricky's description). Parked cars,
trucks, and vans everywhere. Campers camping. A Ferris wheel. An
arriving passenger train bannered "Asteroid City Alien Special"
jammed with tourists leaning out windows and clambering down
from doors -- among them a newsboy carrying a stack of papers.
He shouts:

                    NEWSBOY
          Extra! Extra! Late Edition!

INSERT:

The front page of a daily newspaper (The Arid Plains Desert
Post). Headline: "High School Student Breaks Alien Invasion
Story: Exposes Military Cover-up." A sidebar begins: "Junior
Stargazer, Ace Reporter: Ricky Cho (of the Coldcreek High School
Weekly Bobcat)." Augie's photograph of the alien is top/center
with a caption: Augie Steenbeck/French Press International.

INT. OBSERVATORY. DAY

The classroom. General Gibson sits, as before, at the table in
front. Ricky, in a school desk, faces him. Also present: Roger,
                                                          89.


the business executive, two guards. (Tacked to the wall:
numerous photographs of the alien's footprints.) General Gibson
is offended, disappointed, angry:

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          I hope you're aware: you and your
          accomplices may still face felony
          prosecution. Possibly, even, a treason
          charge.

                     RICKY
                 (unfazed)
          I'll fight it all the way to the Supreme
          Court, if necessary -- and win.

The door opens, and the aide-de-camp enters to deliver a yellow
envelope to General Gibson.

                    AIDE-DE-CAMP
          This just in: from the president.

General Gibson tears open the envelope. He speed-reads a
telegram. He tosses papers fluttering into the air as he groans,
wounded:

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          He's furious. Thanks, Ricky.

                     ROGER
                 (sympathetic)
          I don't know what to say, General Gibson.
          I'm sorry.

                    RICKY
          Don't apologize, Dad. The public has a
          right to the truth.

                     ROGER
                 (gently)
          You made your point.

                     RICKY
                 (shouting)
          This tribunal is a mockery!

Ricky strides to the door, father in tow. The business executive
inquires, aside, to General Gibson:

                    EXECUTIVE
          What about Steenbeck? Who took the
          photograph. It's on the front page of
          every newspaper on the planet. Can't we
          arrest him, as well?
                                                          90.


                    GENERAL GIBSON
          Unfortunately, no. He dropped a print in
          the mail (to his photo-agency) first
          thing Tuesday morning, and the postman
          got it before we did. He's innocent.
          Supposedly, he did a nude of Midge
          Campbell, too.

EXT. DESERT. DAY

An improvised shooting range behind the luncheonette. A barrage
of machine-gun bullets rips into a row of paper targets (adapted
from Augie's alien photograph) pinned to a bank of hay bales,
shredding them. A dozen soldiers, flat on the ground in a row,
quickly reload. One of them (the guard from the telephone booth)
notices something off-screen and frowns.

A hundred yards away: a beer bottle catapults into the air. J.J.
hoists Clifford's electromagnetic death-ray up to his shoulder
and pulls the trigger, silently zapping the bottle into glowing
dots which linger/sizzle/pop. J.J. recharges the death-ray while
Sandy observes at his side. Stanley distributes fresh martinis
from the cantina machine. (He retains another round in his free
hand, clasped by a finger in each cup.)

                    SANDY
          How long can they keep us in Asteroid
          City? Legally, I mean.

                    J.J.
          Well, I'm not an attorney, but I'd say:
          "As long as they like." I think we'd have
          to file an injunction and successfully
          argue the case. Six months to a year? Of
          course, we'd also initiate a civil suit
          for loss of income.

                     STANLEY
                 (pleasantly)
          Maybe we should just walk out right now.
          I'm not sure they can stop us. Without
          killing somebody.

                    J.J.
          Interesting idea. What kind of mileage
          you think that jet pack gets?

                     SANDY
                 (taking the death-ray)
          Ask Roger (or his son). Apparently, he's
          being prosecuted for revealing state
          secrets.
                                                          91.


                     J.J.
                 (dismissive)
          They'll never make it stick.

                    STANLEY
          I'm in no hurry. I like the desert. I
          like aliens.

J.J. places another beer bottle into the launcher and catapults
it. Sandy aims the death-ray -- but an off-screen voice
interrupts brusquely:

                    GUARD (O.S.)
          How'd you get that back?

J.J., Sandy, and Stanley turn suddenly, startled. (The bottle
falls to the ground, unzapped, and shatters.) The telephone
booth guard (still armed for target practice) stands behind the
group. J.J. retrieves the death-ray from Sandy, possessive.

                    GUARD
          The projects remain under secure
          lockdown. No Stargazer is permitted
          personal access without the express
          permission --

                     J.J.
                 (righteous)
          My son invented this death-ray.

                     GUARD
                 (hesitates)
          That may be true; but my orders --

The guard reaches toward the death-ray. J.J. swings up the nose
of the device.

                       J.J.
          Step back!

                     STANLEY
                 (concerned/bemused)
          Easy, fellas. We're not in Guadalcanal
          anymore.

The aide-de-camp jogs briskly from another direction to
intervene. He carries a military-issue handheld two-way radio.
He says soothingly:

                    AIDE-DE-CAMP
          OK! Calm down, please. Everybody. It's
          been a difficult quarantine.
                                                           92.


J.J. and the guard are now pointing their weapons at each other,
point-blank. They shout/scream:

             GUARD                            J.J.
You stole your projects!         I'll zap you right now!

The aide-de-camp's radio crackles: "Stand down!" The aide-de-
camp nods and says sharply to the guard:

                    AIDE-DE-CAMP
          Stand down! You see? General Gibson says,
          "Stand down." We'll re-confiscate the
          projects at a later time. Probably after
          dinner.

                     J.J.
                 (grimly)
          Try it.

INT. MOTEL CABINS #9/10. DAY

Cabin #10: Augie's roller-blind zings open once again as he
wiggles/fans another damp print. (Hanging from clothespins
behind him: a print of the Steenbeck family station wagon on
blocks.) He says loudly without looking:

                    AUGIE
          This was on an old roll I forgot to
          develop in the glove box.

Augie reverses the photograph to show: himself in a smoky/misty
jungle, hair matted with blood, more blood caked black on the
side of his neck, puffing his pipe, holding up a bloody/twisty
metal shard.

                    AUGIE
          "Self-portrait with Shrapnel."

As he hangs the print Augie finally sees in Cabin #9, across the
driveway: Midge, lifeless in an overflowing bathtub with an
empty bottle of sleeping pills spilled all over the floor. Augie
freezes, squints, and stares. Midge says motionless, eyes
closed, mascara streaked:

                    MIDGE
          Do page forty-five.

Augie hesitates. He disappears briefly -- then returns holding a
copy of Midge's script. He sits and reads out loud:

                    AUGIE
          "What've you done? How could you?"
                                                          93.


                    MIDGE
          It says, "shouting and crying."

                    AUGIE
          Uh-huh.

                    MIDGE
          So shout and cry.

                     AUGIE
                 (shouting/crying)
          "How could you!

                     MIDGE
                 (evenly)
          How couldn't I?

                     AUGIE
                 (stupefied)
          How -- couldn't -- you?

                    MIDGE
          That's what I'm asking.

                     AUGIE
                 (wounded)
          It was over. Already. You were free.
          What's the point of committing suicide
          when there's nothing left to escape?

                     MIDGE
                 (opening her eyes)
          Maybe that was the problem all along."

                     AUGIE
                 (out of character)
          Now it says I smash everything off the
          shelf.

                    MIDGE
          So smash everything off the --

Augie makes shattering/crashing sounds and bashes imaginary
plates and vases off imaginary shelves in every direction,
enraged. He reels back to Midge and says, baffled:

                    AUGIE
          "Such a sickening waste. Think of the
          people. Think of the places. Think of
          the --"

                     MIDGE
                 (directing)
          Use your grief.
                                                          94.


                     AUGIE
                 (stiffening)
          For a rehearsal? I'm not even in this
          picture. I'm a war photographer.

Midge shrugs. Long pause. Augie tries again, crushed/
heartbroken -- and improved:

                    AUGIE
          "Such a sickening waste. Think of the
          people. Think of the places. Think of the
          world you could've seen, Dolores.

                     MIDGE
                 (inevitably)
          I've already seen it."

                     AUGIE
                 (out of character)
          Is she a ghost?

                    MIDGE
          It's not clear.

                     AUGIE
                 (skimming/paraphrasing)
          Then the coroner comes in. Orders me out
          of the room. I slowly turn away and close
          the door. Scene. My sandwich is burning.

Augie stands up and exits the bathroom. Camera dollies to the
next window to reveal Augie forking a grilled cheese from a hot
plate on the table. Midge enters her own bedroom (opposing
window), wrapping her dressing gown around her as she sits. She
says, suddenly tense:

                    MIDGE
          My daughter saw us.

                      AUGIE
                  (alarmed)
          What?

                    MIDGE
          Dinah saw us. Through this window. In
          your bedroom yesterday.

                     AUGIE
                 (resourceful)
          Did you tell her we were rehearsing
          again?
                                                               95.


                     MIDGE
                 (regretful)
          I didn't think of that. I should've. Now
          it's too late, because I admitted
          everything.

                     AUGIE
                 (short pause, uneasy)
          Did she tell Woodrow?

                    MIDGE
          Hard to say. She can keep a secret. I
          don't know if she will.

Augie and Midge simultaneously look away and sigh. Midge begins
to carefully funnel sleeping pills back into their bottle. She
says quietly:

                    MIDGE
          This isn't the beginning of something,
          Augie.

                     AUGIE
                 (pause)
          Isn't it?

                       MIDGE
                   (surprised)
          Is it?

                     AUGIE
                 (resigned)
          Probably not.

Another pause. Then, simultaneously:

             AUGIE                              MIDGE
   (hopeful/desperate)                (hopeful/affectionate)
Although you never know.           Unless maybe it is?

Augie and Midge stare at each other. Augie says oddly:

                    AUGIE
          I don't like the way that guy looked at
          us.

                     MIDGE
                 (not following)
          Which guy?

                       AUGIE
          The alien.
                                                            96.


                     MIDGE
                 (surprised)
          Oh. How'd he --

                     AUGIE
                 (interrupting)
          Like we're doomed.

A beat. Augie looks down to:

INSERT:

The electric hot plate (patterned with diagonal zig-zag
lightning bolts). Brand: "Quicky-Griddle."

Augie slaps down his palm on the burner. He yelps and jerks his
hand away. Midge frowns.

                    MIDGE
          What'd you just do?

                     AUGIE
                 (frozen)
          I burned my hand on the Quicky-Griddle.

                     MIDGE
                 (confused)
          Why?

                    AUGIE
          It's not clear.

                     MIDGE
                 (deeply perplexed)
          Show me.

Augie holds up his hand. The palm is seared with griddled
lightning bolts. Midge looks shocked.

                    MIDGE
          You really did it! That actually
          happened.

Augie looks at his hand, bewildered. He frowns.

EXT. MOTEL GARDEN. DAY

The schoolchildren sit, once again, at their picnic table. June
(now wearing slightly more make-up than usual, with one extra
blouse button unbuttoned and her hair looser, in waves) stands
next to her blackboard which is still illustrated with the
colorful solar system and now includes numerous moons and
detailed size/distance/mass measurements. The two chaperones
remain uneasy.
                                                             97.


The motel gardener/handyman studies a user's manual and tinkers
with pliers and screwdrivers behind a large cabinet housing a
tiny television screen (tuned to static) situated on a rolling
cart. Adjacent: a pedestal-mounted television camera. June
begins:

                    JUNE
          As you know, boys and girls, your parents
          arrived late last night by military
          helicopter. They've been sequestered in
          that metal hut over there --

June points to, just outside the town perimeter/barricades,
between throngs of festive visitors: a mobile Quonset hut with a
Sikorsky helicopter parked next to it.

                    JUNE
          -- for the past several hours while the
          government scientists explain the
          situation to them (although everything's
          already in the newspapers). It's my
          understanding they're about to go onto
          this closed-circuit television set? At
          any moment.

                    GARDENER/HANDYMAN
          Everything's connected, but nothing's
          working.

The gardener/handyman continues to tinker. June continues:

                     JUNE
          Let's carry on with the lesson plan,
          then. Jupiter:
                 (reluctantly)
          Billy?

The freckled boy has raised his hand. He blurts:

                    FRECKLED BOY
          I did the alien's flying saucer with a
          hubcap and a chicken pot pie tin.

The freckled boy displays an intricately constructed scale model
of the alien's spacecraft (employing toothpicks, paperclips,
sequins, glitter, pipe cleaners, and cotton ball smoke). A
critical/appreciative murmur among the other schoolchildren.

                     JUNE
          Good work. Very accurate. Fifth planet
          from the sun, largest in our solar
          system, Jupiter --
                 (reluctantly)
          Bernice?
                                                           98.


The girl with curly red hair has raised her hand. She blurts:

                    CURLY-HAIRED GIRL
          I did the alien on his home planet.

The curly-haired girl displays a crayon drawing of the alien (in
thinker-pose, mysteriously smiling) perched on a rock in front
of a futuristic mansion in a barren desert. Another
critical/appreciative murmur.

                     JUNE
          Well done. How wonderful. Due to extreme
          atmospheric conditions, an anticyclonic
          storm has raged on Jupiter's surface for
          over --
                 (reluctantly)
          Dwight?

The boy with the cowlick has raised his hand. He blurts:

                    BOY WITH COWLICK
          I wrote a song about him.

The boy with the cowlick displays a wide-ruled sheet of
pencilled lyrics. June hesitates, uneasy.

                     JUNE
          Oh. Um. This may not be the time for a
          musical performance. Let's --
                 (surprised)
          Yes, Montana?

Montana appears next to June (again), tuning a rattly lap-steel
guitar as the entire posse of other cowboys and ranch hands
filters into formation behind him, briskly arranging several hay
bales and tuning their own instruments. The boy with the cowlick
steps in front. Montana explains:

                    MONTANA
          Pardon th' interuption, June. The boys
          and I heard ol' Dwight was scribblin' up
          a little warble, so we learned ourselves
          to play it.

The group launches directly into a haunting western chant with
ominous, plucked accompaniment. The boy with the cowlick
steeples his hands as if in prayer and sings:

                    BOY WITH COWLICK
          Dear alien, who art in heaven,
          Lean and skinny, 'bout six-foot-seven;
          Though we know ye ain't our brother:
          Are you friend or foe (or other)?
                                                          99.


The chorus brings the song instantly into the upbeat
skiffle/rodeo genre with full country orchestration and the
entire posse singing in unison (in three octaves):

                     CHORUS
          Hop on one foot,
          Skip on two;
          Dance the Spaceman,
          Howdly-do!
          Bounce on four foot,
          Spring on three;
          Let's be Spacemen,
                 (in twelve-part harmony:)
          Howdly-dee!

The children, ecstatic, clap and bounce with the joyful music.
Montana sets aside his lap-steel, hops over to June, takes her
hand, and pulls her into a dance while the other musicians (and,
now, the gardener/handyman, as well) continue to play a round of
exquisite/repeated "Howdly-dees!" with whoops and stomps etc.
June, caught off-guard, laughs as Montana swings her in a
circle. Unobserved on the T.V. set: the parents (clustered
together inside a small hangar, hot, haggard, weary, unkempt,
slightly terrified) have finally been connected. They watch,
mystified.

(NOTE: the lyric "or other" might, perhaps, be sung by one of
the ranch hands in extreme, deepest basso profondo.)

EXT. MOTEL CABIN #7. DAY

The five teenagers sit together (once again) in a circle on the
ground between the burned ruins and the canvas tent. One of the
radio telescopes from the field outside the observatory has been
relocated into the immediate background. It spins quietly in its
familiar manner. As Dinah lists names (periodically pointing to
Ricky, Clifford, and/or Shelly as "out"), Dr. Hickenlooper
appears (unnoticed) behind them. She inspects the radio
telescope, surprised/irritated. She watches the game briefly.

(NOTE: Woodrow and Dinah, the only players not "out," stare only
at each other during the game. The other participants look back
and forth between them, invested in the outcome of the
competition -- but also intrigued by the noticeable chemistry in
the air. Clifford performs an occasional yo-yo trick.)

                    DINAH
          -- Tab Hunter, Doris Day, out, Jack the
          Ripper, out, Bing Crosby, Shirley Temple,
          out, out, Orson Welles, Lucille Ball,
          out, Marlon Brando, out, Queen Elizabeth,
          Mickey Mantle, out, out, Yul Bryner,
          Louis Armstrong, out, Lana Turner, out --
                                                         100.


Dr. Hickenlooper follows a low, suspended electrical cable into
the tent. Camera dollies with her to reveal: a much-expanded
array of sophisticated gadgetry and wiring (humming, blinking,
beeping) which now fills the entire space beyond its capacity.
(Dinah's plant-growing device appears to have cultivated a
beanstalk which extends out through a hole in the roof of the
tent.) Dr. Hickenlooper shakes her head. She returns to the
group while Dinah continues:

                    DINAH
          -- Betty Grable, Ella Fitzgerald, out,
          out, Rock Hudson, out, Jerry Lewis, out,
          out --

                     DR. HICKENLOOPER
                 (interrupting)
          Who's responsible for stealing my radio
          telescope, my signal-processing receiver,
          and my entire spectrographical monitoring
          network?

The five startled teenagers look to each other, worried. Woodrow
answers:

                    WOODROW
          We're trying to contact the alien.

Dr. Hickenlooper struggles to convey the depths of her
profoundly wounded annoyance as she responds:

                     DR. HICKENLOOPER
          I appreciate that -- but what about Dr.
          Hickenlooper? I personally designed most
          of this equipment. I lobbied for
          congressional support. I cultivated
          dubious relationships in the private
          sector (a necessary compromise). Plus: I
          sit up there in my observatory every
          night. Watching and listening. If you're
          trying to contact the alien: include me!
                 (pause)
          Did you hear anything from him? So far.

                    WOODROW
          No.

Dr. Hickenlooper scoffs: "Ha." She motions with a thumb back
towards the tent:

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          The squiggle control is disabled, by the
          way.
                                                         101.


                     RICKY
                 (speculating)
          We thought that might reduce resistance
          in the secondary circuit.

                     DR. HICKENLOOPER
                 (pause)
          I doubt it. If you want to borrow my
          stuff, ask first. What's all this?

Dr. Hickenlooper points. Camera pans slightly to reveal a
bulletin board displaying a large concept-drawing which depicts
the moon with the American flag projected onto it; and, thumb-
tacked around it, alternative symbols: a cross, a Star of David,
a pentagram, an eye, a pyramid, a yin/yang, the Coca-Cola logo,
and the photograph of Woodrow's mother. Woodrow explains:

                    WOODROW
          I put the American flag just to be
          patriotic. Now we need to really mean
          something. A universal message. Not only
          to earthlings.

                    RICKY
          We already thought of everything we could
          think of: a cross, a star, a four-leaf-
          clover; letters, numbers, hieroglyphics.

                     DR. HICKENLOOPER
                 (pause)
          What's the point of projecting a star
          onto the moon?

                     WOODROW
          Exactly.

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          I ask that sincerely.

                     SHELLY
                 (hopeful)
          How about "E=mc2?" I still think --

             DINAH                          CLIFFORD
They know that.                  It's too easy.

                    WOODROW
          This is our chance to be actually --
          worthwhile. In our lifetimes.

                     DR. HICKENLOOPER
                 (long pause)
          I see what you mean. Whose turn was it?
                                                         102.


                    DINAH
          The middle of mine. I better start over.
          Cleopatra, Jagadish Chandra Bose, Antonie
          van Leeuwenhoek, Paracelsus, Kurt Gï¿½del,
          William Henry Bragg, Lord Kelvin, Midge
          Campbell, Konstantin Tsiolkovsky --

As Dinah effortlessly continues down her list, Dr. Hickenlooper
signals for Woodrow to join her, aside:

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          A word, Woodrow. About the settings on
          the spectrograph. Note: the warning label
          indicates --

Woodrow follows Dr. Hickenlooper into the tent as she continues
to pretend to study/consult about the stolen gear:

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          -- the risk of electrocution is sharply
          increased when --

Dr. Hickenlooper raises an eyebrow. She whispers with authority:

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          It's all worthwhile. In your lifetime.
          This, I mean.

Dr. Hickenlooper refers to the jumble of scientific apparatus
(and what it represents to her). Woodrow hesitates.

                    WOODROW
          OK.

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          Your curiosity is your most important
          asset. Trust it.

       DR. HICKENLOOPER                      WOODROW
Trust your curiosity.            OK.

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          The resources of my lab will always be
          available to you. After this thing is
          over, I mean. You can sort of be my
          protï¿½gï¿½, if you like.

                     WOODROW
                 (pause)
          Maybe we can prove the hypothesis of
          Celestial Flirtation (and get the math
          right, finally).
                                                           103.


                     DR. HICKENLOOPER
                 (touched)
          Let's try.

                     WOODROW
                 (squinting)
          I think I see the dots. From space.
          Burned into your eyeballs.

Woodrow stares into Dr. Hickenlooper's eyes. Long pause.

                    DR. HICKENLOOPER
          I'm sorry about your mother. I miss mine,
          too. She died forty-six years ago.

                     WOODROW
                 (blankly)
          Thank you.

Tears stream down Woodrow's face again. Dr. Hickenlooper hugs
him.

EXT. MOTEL OFFICE. EVENING

The motel manager stands at the "Deeds" vending machine and
makes his pitch to an off-screen customer:

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          I've already petitioned the State
          Assembly to change the name of the town
          from "Asteroid City" to "Alien Landing,
          U.S.A." This municipality might end up
          being the center of a vast community of --
          Stargazers and Space Cadets. It's a
          historic offering.

CUT TO:

The freckled boy cupping a handful of forty quarters. He bites
his lip, weighing his options. His eyes wander to the candy
machine.

EXT. METEOR CRATER. EVENING

The entire congregation has re-assembled once more at the
bottom/center of the impact crater. Folding chairs. American
flag. Cameraman filming. "Asteroid Day" banner (a bit crumpled).
The five Junior Stargazers' projects on display. The mechanic
stands off to the side holding a small, cardboard box labeled
"Unknown." In the audience: Augie's hand is now carefully
bandage-wrapped. At his lectern: General Gibson speaks.
                                                         104.


                     GENERAL GIBSON
          As you know, the "Asteroid Day" itinerary
          had to be suspended last week due to the
          factual reality of -- our circumstances.
          However: I have an announcement to make.
          Dr. Hickenlooper and the Military-science
          Research and Experimentation Division (in
          conjunction with the Larkings Foundation)
          have officially selected a recipient for
          this year's Hickenlooper Scholarship --
                 (brief/dramatic pause)
          -- and you're all going home. First thing
          tomorrow morning. The president has opted
          to lift the quarantine (by executive
          decree).

The group explodes into cheers, applause, hugs, tears. The aide-
de-camp appears with the giant-sized $5,000 check. General
Gibson says with uneasy warmth/relief:

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          I'd like to take this opportunity -- and,
          by the way, all of this year's projects
          (setting aside my own differences of
          opinion with Ricky Cho) --

General Gibson motions to Ricky, cool but respectful. Ricky
nods, also respectful but also cool.

                     GENERAL GIBSON
          -- were of the very highest calibre,
          without exception -- to formally declare
          and congratulate the winner of the 1955
          Hickenlooper Scholarship --
                 (hesitates)
          What's happening now?

Whispers and murmuring. Everyone has turned to watch: Woodrow,
frozen, pointing to the "date" display/scoreboard. He states
ominously:

                    WOODROW
          It's today again.

Dr. Hickenlooper frowns. Suddenly: the congregation is
illuminated in the familiar green light. They all look up. The
spacecraft is hovering silently above. The round hatch on its
underside irises open. The alien's scraggly fingers reach out
slowly into view, cupping the meteorite in their careful grip,
and thrust/toss the rock (as if releasing a bird or butterfly),
which then drops straight down, landing with a thump more or
less in its original divot. The hatch spirals shut, and the
vessel departs exactly as before (with an additional/horizontal
                                                         105.


loop-de-loop flourish). Everyone stares, mouths open,
frozen/agog. Silence. Augie finally clarifies the situation:

                    AUGIE
          I think he only borrowed the asteroid.

INSERT:

The meteorite. General Gibson's hands gingerly touch the surface
of the rock, then flip it over to reveal, on the bottom: a hand-
painted inventory labeling of indecipherable runic characters.
Pause.

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          It's been inventoried.

General Gibson carefully places the rock back in position
precisely as it fell. He looks to the business executive, tense.
The business executive says immediately:

                    EXECUTIVE
          Re-confiscate the projects.

General Gibson sighs. He strides back to his lectern/microphone
to address the group with urgent wariness:

                    GENERAL GIBSON
          Under the provisions of National Security
          Emergency Scrimmage Plan X: the lifting
          of the quarantine (which I just
          announced) is now canceled (or, at least,
          postponed) due to the unexpected/new
          event which just --

J.J. zaps the P.A. speaker with Clifford's electromagnetic death-
ray. It sizzles/pops/disappears. General Gibson test-taps the
dead microphone. The entire congregation erupts into a riot,
hurling chairs, knocking over tags and markers, tearing down the
banner, etc. Roger rockets up into the air on Ricky's jet-pack,
blasting and roaring above the fracas. Sandy throws
extraterrestrial rocks at soldiers. J.J. continues to zap pieces
of equipment. (Clifford and Shelly egg their parents on. Ricky
clings to the rope tether to prevent his father from rocketing
into the sky.) Andromeda, Pandora, and Cassiopeia cast spells,
swooshing wands, swishing glitter, jumping and shrieking.
Stanley laughs hysterically and keeps hold of them by their
sleeves, belts, and ribbons. The cowboys and ranch hands swing
lassos and holler. The schoolchildren scamper, ecstatic, in
every direction as June and the chaperones try to wrangle them.
The mechanic yelps as the box in his hands suddenly begins to
jump and twist. He drops it on the ground, and the box splits
open to reveal the peculiar assembly as it repeats its earlier
sputtering, squealing, scooting, etc. Woodrow adjusts a knob on
his device/project, gently shielding it from the hubbub. The
                                                         106.


moon hologram blinks on. Dinah looks up at the sky. Projected on
the surface of the actual moon itself: the initials "W.S. + D.C"
(inside the outline of a heart-shape). Woodrow and Dinah kiss, a
breathless/delirious clutch.

Augie stands immobile at the center of the chaos. He says to
Midge, at his side, internal-struggling:

                     AUGIE
          Why does Augie burn his hand on the
          Quicky-Griddle?
                 (simply)
          I still don't understand the play.

Augie turns and walks briskly to the edge of the crater -- which
reveals itself to be a painted backdrop. He opens it (swinging
open, along with the rocky terrain, a small section of painted
mountains and sky). He exits.

INT. TELEVISION STUDIO. EVENING

Black and white.

The host stands on the theatre proscenium set (now seen from
backstage, behind plywood flats mounted on two-by-four joist-
frames). A door opens (unfinished plywood on one side, painted
crater/mountains/sky on the other) to reveal the actor playing
Augie (with bandage-wrapped hand). In the background (onstage):
the actors playing Midge, General Gibson, and Dr. Hickenlooper
watch, puzzled. Beyond them: footlights and darkness. The actor
closes the door.

The host hesitates. He asks the actor:

                    HOST
          Where you going?

                     ACTOR/AUGIE
                 (pause)
          I'll be right back.

The actor crosses into the wings, past a make-up table where the
actor playing the alien is in the process of applying his alien
prosthetics. Overheard (with the actress who plays Shelly) as we
pass:

                    ACTOR/ALIEN
          I don't play him as an alien, actually. I
          play him as a metaphor. That's my
          interpretation.

                     ACTRESS/SHELLY
                 (vaguely interested)
          Metaphor for what?
                                                         107.


                     ACTOR/ALIEN
                 (working on it)
          I don't know yet.

The actor continues past a live television camera with a
confused operator assisted by a puzzled electrician and into the
makeshift bedroom installation (unlit) where the director lies
sleeping on his folding bunk. The actor stands and says,
insistent:

                    ACTOR/AUGIE
          Schubert. Schubert. Schubert.

The lights come up on the set (slightly disorderly: too
bright/too dark, blinking on/off) and the director opens his
eyes. He bolts upright.

                     DIRECTOR
          Huh? Yes! What's wrong?
                 (checks his watch)
          Are you on?

                    ACTOR/AUGIE
          Technically, but General Gibson just
          started the scene where the president
          doesn't accept his resignation. I've got
          six-and-a-half minutes before my next
          line. I need an answer to a question I
          want to ask.

                    DIRECTOR
                (pause)
          OK.

                    ACTOR/AUGIE
          Am I doing him right?

Long pause. The director twists and sets his bare feet onto the
floor. He answers as he stands up, stretches, then slides a
chair from across the room over to the bedside:

                    DIRECTOR
          Well, I told you before: there's too much
          business. With the pipe, with the
          lighter, with the camera, with the
          eyebrow; but, aside from that, on the
          whole, in answer to your question --

The director directs the actor to sit in the chair. The actor
sits. The director kneels on the floor in front of the actor and
says, looking into the actor's eyes with his undivided
attention:
                                            108.


          DIRECTOR
-- you're doing him just right. In fact,
in my opinion, you didn't just become
Augie: he became you.

          ACTOR/AUGIE
I feel lost.

          DIRECTOR
Good!

          ACTOR/AUGIE
I still don't understand the play.

          DIRECTOR
Good!

          ACTOR/AUGIE
He's such a wounded guy. He had
everything he wanted -- then lost it.
Before he even noticed! I feel like my
heart is getting broken. My own, personal
heart. Every night.

          DIRECTOR
Good!

          ACTOR/AUGIE
Do I just keep doing it?

          DIRECTOR
Yes!

          ACTOR/AUGIE
Without knowing anything?

          DIRECTOR
Yes!

          ACTOR/AUGIE
Isn't there supposed to be some kind of
answer? Out there in the cosmic
wilderness. Woodrow's line about the
meaning of life?

          DIRECTOR
"Maybe there is one!"

          ACTOR/AUGIE
Right. Well, that's my question. I still
don't understand the play.
                                                         109.


                       DIRECTOR
             It doesn't matter. Just keep telling the
             story. You're doing him right.

                        ACTOR/AUGIE
                    (pause)
             I need a breath of fresh air.

                        DIRECTOR
                    (checks his watch)
             OK: but you won't find one.

The director crawls back into bed as the actor exits the
makeshift bedroom installation. Camera moves past a booth at the
stage door, through the exterior wall of the building to:

EXT. ALLEY

Outside in an alley between the docks of two adjacent theatres.
(Half-seen marquees read: "Asteroid City" and "Fruit of a
Withering Vine.") A delicate snowfall dusts the air. Whizzing
taxis zip through the background. The actor closes the stage
door and stands on a fire escape a short ladder's flight above a
row of trash cans. He takes out Augie's pipe and starts to light
it -- then pauses, puts it back into his pocket, and produces a
pack of cigarettes, instead. He lights one. An off-screen voice
says:

                       ACTRESS/WIFE (O.S.)
             Hello.

The actor looks side to side, up and down, then across the alley
-- where he sees, smoking a cigarette on a similar fire escape
next to a similar stage door: the actress in the photograph of
Woodrow's mother/Augie's deceased wife. She is dressed in
Elizabethan costume with starched ruff-collar. The actor
hesitates.

                       ACTOR/AUGIE
             Oh! It's you. The wife who played my
             actress.

The actress nods. Pause.

                       ACTRESS/WIFE
             My scene was cut after one rehearsal.

The actor nods. He shrugs.

                       ACTOR/AUGIE
             We still use your photograph.

The actress thinks. Pause.
                                                           110.


                    ACTRESS/WIFE
          Do you remember the dialogue?

The actor thinks. Pause.

                    ACTOR/AUGIE
          No.

The actor and actress puff on their cigarettes. Pause.

                    ACTRESS/WIFE
          We meet in a dream on the alien's planet.

The actor remembers. He nods.

                    ACTOR/AUGIE
          Magnavox-27. Actually, it's one of the
          moons of it.

Pause. The actress recites (with precision and feeling):

                    ACTRESS/WIFE
          You say: "Did you talk to the alien?" I
          say: "Not yet." You say: "Why not? I
          thought for sure you would've yelled at
          him or made him laugh." I say: "Or asked
          him the secrets of the universe?" You
          say: "Exactly!" I say: "I think he's
          shy." You say: "So's Woodrow, but I'm
          sure he'll grow out of it. I mean, at
          least, I hope he will. Without a mother."
          I say: "He's a late bloomer -- but maybe,
          I think, you'll need to replace me." You
          say: "What? Why? How? I can't." I say:
          "Maybe, I think, you'll need to try. I'm
          not coming back, Augie." Then you take a
          picture of me and start crying, and I
          say: "I hope it comes out."

The actor nods. He remembers the last line:

                     ACTOR/AUGIE
          And I say: "All my pictures come out."
                 (pause)
          Good memory. Why'd they cut it?

                     ACTRESS/WIFE
                 (shrugs)
          Running time? Now I'm First Lady-in-
          Waiting to the Queen Consort in "Fruit of
          a Withering Vine."

The door cracks open. The actor playing the motel manager leans
out and says abruptly:
                                                         111.


                     ACTOR/MOTEL MANAGER
          You missed your cue! June and the cowboy
          are already necking in the station wagon.
          They're bandaging the understudy's hand
          right now.

The actor throws away his cigarette and darts inside. The door
slams behind him. The actor playing the motel manager lingers.
He takes out a cigarette and says:

                    ACTOR/MOTEL MANAGER
          Oh! It's you. We almost would've had a
          scene together. Hello.

Across the alley: the actress nods and smiles as she continues
to smoke. Camera leaves her and the actor playing Stanley behind
as it dollies away across the television soundstage to:

INT. PLAYWRIGHT'S DESK

Seated at his little desk, clacking at his typewriter, spotlit
in the darkness: the playwright. The host, also spotlit,
explains:

                    HOST
          Six months into the run, the company
          received the news: a catastrophic
          automobile accident. Conrad Earp,
          American playwright unequaled in passion
          and imagination, dead at fifty.

The playwright stops typing and looks to camera. Lights/sound
slowly fade from him as he speaks -- while, behind him,
lights/sound come up on the rehearsal space (Saltzburg Keitel's
classroom).

                    PLAYWRIGHT
          I'd like to make a scene where all my
          characters are each gently/privately
          seduced into the deepest, dreamiest
          slumber of their lives as a result of
          their shared experience of a bewildering
          and bedazzling celestial mystery...

The students pick up their improvisations exactly where they
left off: yawning, snoring, sleepwalking/sleeptalking, tossing
and turning, singing a lullaby, thumbsucking with a security
blanket, etc. The playwright joins the acting teacher and the
director, observing. Eventually, out of the hullaballoo, the
actor who plays Augie says from the back of the room:

                    ACTOR/AUGIE
          You can't wake up if you don't fall
          asleep.
                                                         112.


Other actors murmur a response: "What's that mean?" "So what?"
"Who said it?" More snoring/tossing/singing, etc. The actress
who plays Shelly now says loudly:

                    ACTRESS/SHELLY
          You can't wake up if you don't fall
          asleep.

Another round of responses, more forceful: "That's not true!"
"Who cares?" "Say it again!" The actor who plays the mechanic
now says loudly:

                    ACTOR/MECHANIC
          You can't wake up if you don't fall
          asleep.

The other students, on their feet, raise their voices: "Maybe
not?" "Why should you?" "Of course!" The actors who play Roger
and Montana shout together:

          ACTOR/ROGER                     ACTOR/MONTANA
You can't wake up if you don't   You can't wake up if you don't
fall asleep!                     fall asleep!

                     ACTRESS/MIDGE
                 (nodding)
          You can't wake up if you don't fall
          asleep!

The teacher's face lights up. He murmurs: "Infinity -- and I
don't know what else!" He grabs the playwright's hand and joins
the chant, exuberant:

                    TEACHER
          You can't wake up if you don't fall
          asleep!

The playwright laughs, confused/enchanted. The director and all
the other students, jolting from place to place around the room,
repeat the chant, first chaotic, then in unison, over and over --
as the alien himself (now fully made-up, with inventoried
meteorite tucked under his arm) emerges from the pandemonium
(ignored by everyone) and moves to the front of the stage. The
lights dim to half-level on the shouting/uproarious classroom
with the alien alone in bright spotlight. The host, nearby,
watching, turns to camera. He smiles.

EXT. HIGHWAY. DAY

Widescreen/color.

The town: deserted. No barricades. No roadblocks. No guards,
cars, jeeps. No press. No public. No vendors, vans, campers. No
"Asteroid City Alien Special" passenger train. Only: fluttering
                                                           113.


litter, empty bottles, and hundreds of tire tracks cross-
hatching the barren outskirts. The only remaining people: a crew
of two men at work breaking down the Ferris wheel. A single sign
on a post has been amended to read:

               Strict Quarantine!
               LIFTED
               by order of
               the United States Military-science
               Research and Experimentation Division

INT. MOTEL CABINS #9/10. DAY

Cabin #10: the roller-blind zings open once again on Augie's
makeshift darkroom. Augie, dressed in pajamas, lights his pipe
and looks across/into the bathroom window of Cabin #9. The motel
manager (reviewing a clipboard check-list) inspects for dust
while a maid (off-screen) runs a vacuum cleaner. The occupants
have moved out. Augie squints. He says suddenly:

                    AUGIE
          Where'd they go?

The motel manager looks up. He sees Augie. He smiles and
approaches the window as he says brightly:

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          Good morning, Mr. Steenbeck! Juice
          preference? Apple, orange, or tomato.

                     AUGIE
                 (looking left/right)
          Where'd they go? Everybody.

                     MOTEL MANAGER
                 (hesitates)
          Of course, I understand. The president
          lifted the quarantine, after all. At
          midnight! He sent the whole gang home.
          The troops, the cowboys, the Junior
          Stargazers and Space Cadets. Even the
          lookie-loos. You're free to return --
          back to wherever you came from. (Maybe
          he's going to change his mind, but nobody
          stuck around to find out.) We had eleven
          check-outs this morning.
                 (cheerily)
          I guess you overslept. They returned your
          science projects, by the way.

The motel manager points to Woodrow's project, boxed/crated, on
the doorstep. A label reads: "PROPERTY of the LARKINGS
                                                           114.


Foundation (on permanent loan to Woodrow Steenbeck)." Long
pause. Augie says finally:

                    AUGIE
          Tomato.

                    MOTEL MANAGER
          Right away!

Camera dollies from Augie's bathroom/darkroom window to his
bedroom window. Inside: the three sisters sleep in one bed while
Stanley and Woodrow each occupy a folding cot. They are all five
sprawled, snoring, tangled in sheets, etc. Augie appears in the
doorway and watches/listens for a moment.

EXT. MOTEL CABIN #10. DAY

In the alley behind the cabin: Stanley, also in pajamas,
crouching on his knees, attempts to dig in the ground with a
gardener's trowel while Andromeda, Pandora, and Cassiopeia, in
nightgowns, gasp and shriek, blocking him. The partially
unearthed Tupperware salad bowl pokes up from the dirt. Stanley
and Woodrow watch, solemn. In the background: Stanley's parked
Eldorado. Stanley defends his actions:

                    STANLEY
          The plan was to shovel it up and take her
          with us. Like I said: we'll exhume the
          Tupperware. We don't have any burial
          rights to this plot here.

                     AUGIE
                 (interjecting)
          I would question whether it even is a
          plot.

                     STANLEY
                 (sharply)
          It isn't.

Stanley attempts to resume his digging. The girls, once again,
go into a frenzied panic:

          CASSIOPEIA                         PANDORA
Don't murder my mother's body!   He's killing her ashes!

Stanley stops/freezes. Andromeda commands him:

                    ANDROMEDA
          Let us pray.

Silence. The motel manager appears at some distance with a glass
of tomato juice on a tray. He pauses, puzzled. Andromeda
screams:
                                                         115.


                    ANDROMEDA
          Poppy!

The motel manager disappears. Stanley, spirit crushed, presses
on:

                    STANLEY
          Ugh. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank Thee
          for the life of this magnificent woman,
          who was once just a little girl like
          these three -- witches? In-training.

The girls murmur their corrections: "Not in training." "Real
witches." "Part-witch, part-alien." Stanley continues:

                    STANLEY
          Like these three witches, at one time. We
          had no intention of permanently burying
          her next to this unmarked cactus, but I
          no longer have the strength to fight for
          her dignity, nor/neither does Augie. (Do
          you?)

                    AUGIE
          No.

                    STANLEY
          So we'll defer to the wishes of her
          stubborn daughters. Woodrow? Any final
          farewell.

                    WOODROW
          I don't believe in God anymore.

Stanley takes this in stride. He shrugs.

                    STANLEY
          Fair enough. Amen.

"Amens" all around. The three sisters avidly re-bury the
Tupperware and stamp down the dusty surface. Tears stream down
Stanley's and Augie's faces. Woodrow holds his father's hand.
The girls arrange flowers around the gravesite and repeat their
whispered incantation: "Friskity, triskity, briskity, boo;
knickerty, knockerty, tockerty, too..."

INT. LUNCHEONETTE. DAY

The chime jingles as Augie, Stanley, Woodrow, and the three
sisters enter. Augie says to the waitress:

                    AUGIE
          Five orders of flapjacks and two black
          coffees.
                                                         116.


The waitress nods and scribbles. The cook snatches down the
order-slip. The family sits.

                    AUGIE
          Who needs to pee?

The girls respond with their unconvincing chorus: "Not me." "I
don't." "Nobody needs to pee." The waitress asks them:

                    WAITRESS
          How about a glass of strawberry milk?

The girls perk up. They nod and "uh-huh" eagerly. The waitress
sets to work preparing the beverages. The girls change their
minds: "I do need to pee." "Where's the powder room?" "Let's
go." They scramble away, out the door, around the side of the
building. Augie tamps his pipe. Woodrow writes in his notebook.
A thought occurs to Stanley:

                    STANLEY
          Did somebody win? That scholarship.

                       WOODROW
                   (without looking up)
          I did.

                       AUGIE
                   (surprised)
          When?

                    WOODROW
          Last night. General Gibson slipped it to
          me in line at the communal showers. I
          think he just wanted to get it over with.
          It's actually a standard-sized check of
          typical dimensions. The big one's only
          for show.

Woodrow digs into his pocket. He produces/hands over a normal-
sized check for $5000. Augie says, enormously excited:

                    AUGIE
          Congratulations, Woodrow. That's
          stupendous!

                     STANLEY
                 (deeply impressed)
          You must be some kind of genius.

                      AUGIE
          I agree.
                                                           117.


                     STANLEY
                 (rephrasing it)
          You must be some kind of -- "Brainiac."

Woodrow smiles, good-natured, and goes back to his notebook.
Stanley stares at the check for a moment and asks:

                    STANLEY
          Has it got any strings attached to it?
          It's made out to you, personally. How you
          plan to use it?

Woodrow takes back the check. He examines it. He shrugs.

                    WOODROW
          Probably spend it on my girlfriend.

Woodrow re-pockets the check and returns to his notebook. Augie
and Stanley exchange a look. Stanley asks Woodrow, curious:

                    STANLEY
          What do you write? In that little book.

Woodrow looks at Stanley briefly (not sure he can trust him). He
shows him a page.

                    WOODROW
          Next year's project. Confidentially.

Stanley and Augie study the notebook. They look utterly
fascinated. They mutter simultaneously, concentrating:

             AUGIE                           STANLEY
Wow. Is that possible?           Gee whiz. Look at that.

Woodrow withdraws the notebook suddenly. He resumes his work.
The waitress appears with a little slip of paper (folded in
half) which she slides to Augie.

                    WAITRESS
          Midge Campbell left you her address.
          (It's just a post office box.)

Augie raises an eyebrow. He nods. He opens the slip of paper and
reads. He and Stanley exchange another/different look. Stanley
leans to Augie and whispers something inaudible into his ear.
Augie says, taken aback:

                    AUGIE
          That's none of your business, Stanley.

                    STANLEY
          I know. Of course, it isn't. (I only ask
          because Woodrow told me Dinah told him.)
                    (more)
                                                          118.

                     STANLEY (cont'd)
          I went to law school with her former
          agent. Anyway: I don't object.
                 (encouraging)
          She's actually a very gifted comedienne.

Long pause. Augie says sadly/gladly/genuinely:

                    AUGIE
          That's true.

A distant boom shudders the building (once again). Only Stanley
reacts, alarmed. Down the counter, the cashier dismisses the
matter:

                    CASHIER
          Another atom bomb test.

Stanley hesitates. He nods slowly. Breakfast continues.

EXT. HIGHWAY. DAY

The blacktop interstate. At the meteor crater: the radio
telescopes continue their perpetual spinning. At the filling
station: there are now two station wagons on blocks in the
adjacent small junkyard. At the chopped-off elevated highway-
spur: the sounds of approaching sirens, motors, gunshots; then
the Chevy (still dragging its muffler, which pops off and
spirals into the air) roars through, down the highway, pursued
by the state trooper and motorcycle police. At the motor court
hotel: the gardener/handyman finishes replacing the letters on
his sign which now reads: "Welcome to Alien Landing, U.S.A.
Limited quantity of land parcels still available." (In the
background, beyond the mountains, a mushroom cloud lingers in
the sky.) At the luncheonette: Augie, Stanley, Woodrow, and the
three girls climb into the Eldorado, now overflowing with boxes
and luggage. The waitress, standing in the doorway, drying her
hands on her apron, nods goodbye.

At the railroad crossing, beyond the covered-wagon sign: the
warning bell rings as a freight train passes through (opposite
direction from opening scene); and finally the Eldorado pulls
up, waits for the caboose to clear, then drives away, into the
hot desert.




Asteroid City
Writers : Â Â Wes AndersonÂ Â Roman Coppola
Genres : Â Â ComedyÂ Â DramaÂ Â RomanceÂ Â Sci-Fi
User Comments








