



                         BLACKBERRY



                         Written by

                Matt Johnson & Matthew Miller



                                            Shooting Script


                Based on, "Losing the Signal"

              by Jacquie McNish & Sean Silcoff




TEXT ON SCREEN:

  The following fictionalization is inspired by real people
    and real events that took place in Waterloo, Ontario.


CORPORATE CREDITS BEGIN AS MUSIC FADES IN.

An authoritative male voice.

                    MALE VOICE (O.S.)
          I'm thinking of the incredible
          breakthrough which has been made
          possible by developments of
          communications. Particularly, the
          transistor and above all the
          communications satellite. These
          things will make possible --

In Black and White archival footage we now see the man behind
the voice, who some will recognize as famed science fiction
author ARTHUR C. CLARKE.

                    ARTHUR C. CLARKE
          -- a world in which we can be in
          instant contact with each other
          wherever we may be.


OPENING CREDITS BEGIN


INT. DOUG'S 1984 HONDA CIVIC, WATERLOO STREETS - MORNING

DOUG (35) drives a Brown 1984 HONDA CIVIC HATCHBACK with MIKE
(35, grey hair) in the passenger seat.

                    ARTHUR C. CLARKE
          It will be possible in that age,
          perhaps only fifty years from now,
          for a man to conduct his business
          from Tahiti or Bali just as well as
          he could from London.

Mike nervously shuffles CUE CARDS, rehearsing as the duo
drive through Waterloo, Ontario.


INT. JIM'S BMW, WATERLOO STREETS - MORNING

We see ECU of JIM BALSILLE (35) driving through rural
Waterloo. His Rolex watch, his Harvard MBA ring.
                                                           2.


                    ARTHUR C. CLARKE (O.S.)
          In fact if it proves worthwhile
          almost any executive skill, any
          administrative skill, even any
          physical skill, could be made
          independent of distance.


INT. DOUG'S 1984 HONDA CIVIC, WATERLOO STREETS - MORNING

Mike and Doug drive past a horse and buggy. It's farm
country.

                    ARTHUR C. CLARKE (O.S.)
          When that time comes, the whole
          world will have shrunk to a point --


INT. JIM'S BMW, WATERLOO STREETS - MORNING

Jim approaches his office.

                    ARTHUR C. CLARKE
          -- and the traditional role of the
          city as a meeting place for man
          would have ceased to make any
          sense.


BACK TO ARTHUR C. CLARKE FOR HIS CONCLUSION

                    ARTHUR C. CLARKE
          In fact, men will no longer
          commute. They will communicate.


EXT. PARKING LOT, SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ, WATERLOO - DAY

Doug pulls into the busy lot and finds a VISITOR spot at the
far end.

                    DOUG
          We're not late!

                    MIKE
          I know but, I am going to throw up.

                     DOUG
          Okay!

Doug and Mike jump out of the car -- They open the trunk --
fumbling to grab a stack of PRESENTATION CARDS and EASEL.
                                                            3.


                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          I got it. I got it.

Doug drops the EASEL and PRESENTATION CARDS on the ground.

                       DOUG (CONT'D)
          Shit.

Bends down, gathers.

                       DOUG (CONT'D)
          It's good.

Mike organizes his CUE CARDS as they run towards the main
entrance of SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ.

We stay outside as Jim pulls into the frame with his BMW...

                    SPORTS RADIO HOST (O.S.)
          ...forward Matts Sundin is the
          sleepiest of all out there. He's a
          proven NHL talent but, not scoring
          like the Leafs need him --

Jim pulls into a parking space: "JIM BALSILLIE" and cuts the
engine, killing the radio.

Jim checks himself in the rearview mirror -- notices
something -- turns around...

...sees a limousine unloading well-dressed European business
executives into the parking lot...


INT. RECEPTION, SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ, WATERLOO - DAY

Jim walks enters and turns to    the FACTORY FLOOR towards the
front desk.

                    SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ RECEPTIONIST
          Your 9 o'clock is here.

                    JIM
          Where's Brock?

                    SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ RECEPTIONIST
          His office.

                    YOUNG BUSINESSMAN
          Uh, Mr. Balsillie, you wanted to
          see this report I --

                    JIM
          Talk to Shelley.
                                                          4.


Jim keeps moving, passing Mike and Doug in his office.


INT. JIM'S OFFICE, SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike and Doug (wearing Sutherland-Schultz visitor name tags)
sit opposite Jim's desk. It's a large office with horrific
masks of all descriptions hanging on the wall behind a raw
mahogany desk and a large picture window looking out over the
office..

The easel is now set up with their presentation cards.

Doug observes Sutherland-Schultz through the window. It's a
bustling mid-90s workplace. Staff buzz around cream cubicles
as fax machines chug out mile after mile of thermal paper.
Every computer runs Windows `95.

Mike practices his speech to himself off his CUE CARDS.

                       DOUG
             I finally understand that quote.
             When you grow up, your heart dies.

Mike looks up as though he hears something...

                       DOUG (CONT'D)
             That's from Breakfast Club. John
             Hughes.

                       MIKE
             Do you hear that?

We hear it now too. A STATIC DRONE, like the noise of an open
channel on a walkie-talkie.

                       DOUG
             Uhh, yeah. Are you talking about
             that buzzing?

Mike nods.

                       DOUG (CONT'D)
             Uh huh, it's an office. I'm sure
             they've got a million little
             buzzes.

They listen a beat longer.

                       DOUG (CONT'D)
             It's a subtle buzzing.

Mike has found it.
                                                           5.


                    MIKE
          There.

It's coming from an INTERCOM on the desk.

                    DOUG
          You've identified it.

Mike picks up the intercom -- sees something --

                    MIKE
          Mmmm.

                    DOUG
          What?

-- shows Doug.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          "Made in China". The mark of the
          beast.

Mike clicks open the back of the INTERCOM.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          Uh... Ummm... Mike?

                    MIKE
          I can't concentrate.

                    DOUG
          And so what? You're going to fix
          this?

Mike starts unscrewing the intercom --

                    MIKE
          I'm going to fix it.

Mike has got the screws off and the intercom open -- the
STATIC is louder without the case to muffle it.

                    DOUG
          Uh. Now's not the time. The meeting
          starts in like two minutes. Now's
          not the time. Now's not the time!

                    MIKE
          Okay. I need like a, uh, paperclip.

Mike continues to mess with the INTERCOM.
                                                          6.


                      DOUG
            That's a guy's thing. That's a
            guy's fucking thing.

Doug stands up and checks over his shoulder to see if anyone
is watching. Mike has got the screws off and the intercom
open -- the STATIC is louder without the case to muffle it.

                      MIKE
            It has no off switch. I mean, it's
            just always on. It's just always
            buzzing.

                      DOUG
            Uh huh. Yeah. Um. Oh well -

Doug moves to the easel -- pulls off the paperclip holding
their cards together -- hands it to Mike --

                      DOUG (CONT'D)
               (whispers)
            Yeah, go fast.


INT. BROCK'S OFFICE, SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ, WATERLOO - DAY

Jim walks in and puts his briefcase on the ground.

RICK BROCK (50s, suit and tie) sits behind his desk on the
phone.

                      RICK BROCK
            You can tell him he's - He's not
            going to get steel. Alloys, Harry.

Rick sees Jim at his door.

                      RICK BROCK (CONT'D)
            I'll call you back.

Hangs up.

                      JIM
            They're outside.

Rick checks his watch.

                      RICK BROCK
            These guys really are Dutch, huh?

Jim smiles.
                                                            7.


                    JIM
          Uh. Listen, Rick, I've thought
          about this a lot and if these guys
          take the deal.. I wanna run the new
          division.

Beat. This took Rick by surprise.

                    RICK BROCK
          Think you can run this place?

                      JIM
          Yes. Yes.

                      RICK BROCK (O.S.)
          Me too.

                    RICK BROCK (CONT'D)
          Just so we're clear.. If this thing
          doesn't go. We never had this
          conversation.

                    JIM
          Great... Um... Thank you.

Jim begins to collect his briefcase. Rick interrupts him.

                    RICK BROCK
          There's one adjustment. Apparently
          the Americans offered them some
          fancy tax-splitting plan. So, we
          need to show them the Canadian
          version.

                    JIM
          I don't have that.

                    RICK BROCK
          I know. Callaghan worked out
          something last minute. We're going
          to bring him in to explain it.

Jim looks back into the main office -- sees CALLAGHAN (20s,
very nerdy, BIG glasses, low status)

                    JIM
          Callaghan. Uh... You know what, I
          think that's a bad idea.

                    RICK BROCK
          Why's that?
                                                          8.


                    JIM
          I'll tell ya what, Rick. Why don't
          you have Callaghan explain the tax
          thing to me and I'll just work it
          into my pitch? I think that's
          better.

                    RICK BROCK
          Cal was up all night putting this
          together as a favor to me. He gets
          to present.

                    JIM
          Rick. I mean.

Callaghan continues going over PRESENTATION NOTES with his
ASSISTANT (20s)...

                    JIM (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          You're going to have this guy
          present to Stork? I mean, he looks
          like a... a fucking... a total
          goof.

                    RICK BROCK
          Jim, I'm not asking.

Jim looks at Callaghan then back to Rick.

                    JIM
          Okay. Great.


INT. JIM'S OFFICE, SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ, WATERLOO - DAY -
CONTINUOUS

Mike breaks the clip in half and bends it just so -- rips a
wire off the intercom -- carefully replaces it with the
paperclip, leveraging it against the inside of the ON button.

The STATIC stops. Doug sees a man marching towards them...

                    DOUG
          Umm... okay, bald, scary-looking
          guy walking towards us right now.


INT. HALLWAY, SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

The man is JIM BALSILLIE (35), hurrying down the hallway and
bumping into an S-S employee.

                    JIM
          Goddamn it!
                                                          9.


INT. JIM'S OFFICE, SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

Mike screws the intercom back together -- puts it down on the
desk -- shifts it to a perfect right angle...


INT. HALLWAY, SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

Jim almost spills his COFFEE.

                    JIM
          Watch the fuck out!


INT. JIM'S OFFICE, SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

Doug scrambles to sit back in his seat.

                    DOUG
          Oh shit! Sit down. Sit down.


Mike focuses on the now silent INTERCOM, looks to Doug.

                    MIKE
          Much better.

Jim enters the office, slamming the door behind him. He takes
a seat at his desk, collecting himself, looks across at them.

                    JIM
          Yeah. What can I do for ya?

                    MIKE
          Yes. Hi. Uh, I'm Mike Lazaridis,
          CEO of Research in Motion.

Mike awkwardly hands Jim his business card -- Jim takes it.

Mike returns to his cue cards.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          We create various computer hardware
          systems using both custom-designed
          integrated circuits, as well as off-
          the-shelf components provided by
          major hardware vendors such as
          Intel, American Micro Devices, and
          Cyrix. Our clients have included:
          U.S. Robotics. Rogers Cantel. RAM
          Mobile Data--

Jim interrupts and picks up his phone.
                                                        10.


                    JIM
          Just a second.

Mike and Doug share a look. Doug motions a thumbs up to Mike.

                    JIM (CONT'D)
             (on phone)
          Hey you're on Callaghan's desk,
          right? Okay, great. This is Jim
          Balsille. Brock wanted me to do a
          quick proof of that tax stuff
          before the meeting... could you
          bring me... Exactly... Okay great,
          thanks.

Hangs up -- pulse elevates --

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          Okay. Uh, what is this?

                    MIKE
          So.. We, we had a shop teacher --

Doug attempts to move the PRESENTATION CARDS dropping them on
the ground.

                    DOUG
             (under his breath)
          Fuck.

Doug continues to put the PRESENTATION CARDS back together on
the easel. Jim watches the pair, unamused.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Who told us - Oh. We had a shop
          teacher in high school named Mr.
          Micsinszki who told us "the person
          who puts a computer inside a phone
          will change the world."Well, we
          have a plan to piggyback on the
          unused bandwidth of the UHF
          spectrum to create an all-in-one
          mobile device.

Mike pauses -- Jim's intercom DINGS. Intercom light turns on.

                    SHELLEY (INTERCOM)
          Callaghan's Assistant is here to
          see you?

Jim hits the button.

                    JIM
          Send him in.
                                                        11.


CLICK. NO STATIC.

Doug nods to Mike. At least that worked.

The door opens -- Callaghan's Assistant nervously walks in
and hands Jim some documents.

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          Great.

Callaghan's assistant doesn't leave.

                    CALLAGHAN'S ASSISTANT
          Sorry, Mr, Balsille. No one, uh. I
          didn't realize you needed a copy of
          this tax report --

Jim shoots him a look.

                    JIM
          I'm in a meeting right now.

The Assistant gets it now -- leaves immediately -- Jim flips
through the documents with interest...

Doug steps in --

                    DOUG
          So, basically, there is a free
          wireless internet signal all across
          North America and nobody has
          figured out how to use it. There's
          free internet in this room right
          now. It's like the Force. Sorry,
          have you seen Star Wars?

                    JIM
          No.

                     DOUG
          So, okay, picture a pager, a cell
          phone and an email machine all in
          one thing.

Doug rifles through the PRESENTATION CARDS until he finds the
last one -- revealing concept schematics for a clunky
smartphone, complete with a full clip-art QWERTY keyboard...

                    MIKE
          Uh, we call it, PocketLink.

Jim hardly pays attention.
                                                        12.


                    JIM
             (to the guys)
          Okay. Uh listen, we don't do
          anything like that here. We are a
          commercial manufacturing company.
          You want to talk to a VC guy.

...something catches Jim's eye -- Rick Brock passing by with
Callaghan and two executives -- Jim picks up the tax notes --
stands --

                    JIM (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          And you need a better name.

-- walks out the door --

Beat.

Mike puts his face in his hands despondent.

                    DOUG
          You're going to cry?! Mike. Oh,
          it's just disappointment? You did
          great!


INT. BOARDROOM, SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ, WATERLOO - MOMENTS LATER

A huge Sutherland-Schultz logo shines on the wall.

Eight members of the Stork board (the Europeans from the
limo) sit around a boardroom table. Jim stands in front of
them.

                    JIM
          Well, I saw that Rick sent the limo
          to pick you guys up. We must need
          this merger worse than I thought.

Rick laughs.

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          So...I Know we got a lot to cover,
          but um, I thought we should start
          with our tax strategy. Now, I'm
          sure you heard it from the
          Americans, but, let me assure you,
          we also know how to cheat on our
          taxes here in Canada. Okay?

Laughs from everyone but Rick and Callaghan.
                                                          13.


Jim starts writing numbers on the whiteboard -- Callaghan
looks over at Brock like "what the fuck is he doing?" Brock
narrows his eyes.

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          Here's what we can do: We run
          payroll out of Ontario, but we pay
          all our vendors from The
          Netherlands. Split that fucker
          right in half. The left won't know
          what the right is doing. Plus we
          get a nice little provincial
          kickback on manufacturing labor.

Rick sits in a look of disappointment.

                    JIM (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          We get a massive federal tex credit
          because they don't know whether we
          are private or public.


INT. ELEVATOR, SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ, WATERLOO - SAME TIME

Mike and Doug wait at the elevator. Doug awkwardly holds
their presentation cards. Mike is transfixed with the image
of Jim across the office leading the pitch...

Ding! The elevator opens. Both get inside.


OPENING CREDIT SEQUENCE CONTINUES

A cacophony of sounds and images from the mid-1990s

                    WILLIAM SHATNER AS CAPTAIN KIRK
          Beam me aboard.

                    COMMERCIAL ANNOUNCER
          Taken prisoner and held captive
          within the digital world of the
          computer itself.

                    FROM BLADE RUNNER
          Hello?

                    FROM 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY
          Hello?

                    FROM MIGHTY MORPHIN' POWER RANGERS
          So what you're saying is you just
          touch and talk.
                                                           14.


                    MARIO LOPEZ AS A.C. SLATER
          You can use you cellular phone to
          order me a pizza.

                    PRIME-CO WOMAN
          And that includes fifty minutes of
          air time.

                    LITTLE GIRL
          We'll page you.

                     BILL GATES
          It's very hip to be on the internet
          right now.

                    JONNY LEE MILLER IN HACKERS
          HACK THE PLANET!

                    MATTHEW LILLARD IN HACKERS
          HACK THE PLANE--

                    STEVE JOBS
          I still think Apple has a future.
          The way out is not to slash and
          burn, it's to innovate.

TITLE CARD: 1996


EXT. STRIP PLAZA, RIM 1, WATERLOO - DAY

Doug's Honda Civic peels into a 2-storey plaza and parks. The
lower level is retail, a Supermarket, Shopper's Drug Mart,
flower shop and restaurants. Upstairs are professional
offices. Dentists, lawyers and one lone tech startup, denoted
by a small RIM placard in the window.

Mike and Doug get out -- Mike starts walking towards the
entrance.

                    DOUG
          Okay, here's what I think. Mike,
          super simple, hit them with the
          "good news, bad news" routine. Good
          news - Bad news routine. They're
          going to say -

Mike walks ahead of Doug as he gathers the presentation cards
from the backseat.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          Mike! Wait.

Doug catches up to Mike.
                                                        15.


                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          Everything's going to be fine, we
          still have the U.S. Robotics deal.
          We're like... what did the cave say
          about Aladdin? Diamond in the
          rough?

Doug stops abruptly.

                       DOUG (CONT'D)
          Oh fuck!

                       MIKE
          What?

                    DOUG
          I forgot the easel.

                    MIKE
          Oh, we have to change the name.
          Product needs a new name.

                    DOUG
          You're giving that guy too much
          credit man. He hasn't seen Star
          Wars. He's bald. How much you want
          to bet they don't even mention the
          phone?

Mike opens the door...


INT. MAIN OFFICE, RIM 1, WATERLOO - DAY

The office is a disaster. Food wrappers, styrofoam coffee
cups, random tools, circuit boards and mechanical drawings
strewn all over the place.

                    PRANAY
          Are you Office-Dad?
          Dude! Make a, make a.. Make a
          thing. Make a Scott sucks --

The desks are unfinished plywood balanced on cinder blocks.

                    SCOTT
          I can't. I can't. I can't. That's
          why I'm using your computer.

Some tabletops are just doors taken off their hinges.

Five RIM employees ALLAN, ETHAN, SCOTT, PRANAY & STEVE (20s,
nerdy) are goofing off instead of soldering circuit boards.
                                                        16.


                    PRANAY
          Twenty-One Boy Canada.

                    ETHAN
          That's me. Uh, this guy is telling
          me about sniffing his, sniffing his
          --

They all turn in unison as Mike and Doug walk in.

                    ALLAN
          Did they buy the phone?

Beat.

                    DOUG
          So... we got good news and bad
          news.

Beat.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          Uh, okay.. The bad news is that --
          Yeah, the presentation -- We were
          not heard and they did not
          understand the product and so they
          did not buy the phone.

Beat.

           MICHAEL                          ALLAN
What was the good news?         What's the good news?

                    DOUG
          Emergency movie night. Right now.
          Stephen Spielberg's Raiders of the
          Lost Ark. Letterboxed --

Engineers jump up with excitement simultaneously.


INT. MAIN OFFICE, RIM 1, WATERLOO - LATER

The office is dark. Windows covered. A TV/VCR cart like in
elementary school sits at the front of the room playing
Indiana Jones: Raiders of the Lost Ark (Widescreen). Above
the TV hangs a dot matrix banner: "Movie Night".

                    INDIANA JONES (O.S.)
          You said their headpiece had
          markings only on one side, are you
          absolutely sure? Belloq's staff is
          too long.
                                                        17.


The entire RIM staff watch in anticipation as Harrison Ford
and John Rhys-Davis realize that Belloq's staff is too short.
The whole room shouts in unison with the movie...

                    EVERYONE
          They're digging in the wrong place!

                       DOUG & ALLAN
          Bad dates!

                       INDIANA JONES (O.S.)
          Bad dates.

The only person not having the time of his life is Mike, who
sits at his desk at the back of the room trying to work...

                    PRANAY (O.S.)
          Couple of bad dates.

                    DOUG
          Couple bad dates. Couple bad dates.

                    STEVE
          That was there, why'd they go the
          other one? That was right there.

Mike eats fruit from a Tupperware and brainstorms new names
on a legal pad. Byline, Blade, Outrigger...

                    DOUG (O.S.)
          Mike, you're missing your favorite
          movie, man!

We see a CU of a framed newspaper article from the Waterloo
Region Record on the wall beside him. It's a black and white
photo of a young Mike and Doug standing next to twin
televisions with "ADVERTISE ON ME" scrolling across them. The
headline reads "The Drop-Out Boy Genius".


INT. JIM'S OFFICE, SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ, WATERLOO - EVENING

The lights are off. A JANITOR pushes his cart.

One by one Jim takes his masks down from the wall -- sets
them carefully in a cardboard box.

Jim collapses in his chair. He looks over at the presentation
easel -- sees one forgotten slide from Mike and Doug's
presentation -- the image of the phone with the keyboard on
it...
                                                        18.


EXT. STRIP PLAZA, RIM 1, WATERLOO - DAY

Jim pulls into the plaza.

                    SPORTS RADIO HOST (O.S.)
          Toronto wins it by a count of five-
          to-four. Doug Gilmour had 3
          assists. Felix Potvin finished the
          game with thirty saves including
          three in the extra period, but
          obviously the story was...


INT. MAIN OFFICE, RIM 1, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike sits at his desk trying to plug in his NEIKO HILTEX
MAGNIFYING LIGHT -- he can't find the right power adapter,
but there is chaos in the office. A game of COMMAND & CONQUER
is being played.

                    STEVE
          Are they top or bottom left? Send,
          Send everything, let's take a
          gamble, let's go for Scott --

                    MIKE
          Anyone have a Type-C Coax?!

                    SCOTT
          They don't even know. I'm not even
          top left.

                    DOUG
          Scott, you're attacking me!

                    SCOTT
          What?!

                    DOUG
          You're attacking me.

                    SCOTT
          Oh, I'm sorry.

                    STEVE
          Send the dogs in. Send the dogs in.
          They're rushing --

                    DOUG
          Bottom Right.

                    SCOTT
          I'm sending another, another.
                                                          19.


                    DOUG
          Dude, they got rockets! I got run
          down.

Mike is ignored by the gang, who are too distracted.

                    MIKE
          Anyone have any Type-C Coax cables?

Doug detonates Steve's Command Centre. It's over.

                    DOUG
          Oh, the plungers moving! The
          plungers moving, dude!

Doug runs to Steve's desk, yanks a CEREMONIAL TOILET PLUNGER
off the top of his monitor, the monitor comes with it,
smashing on the ground.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          Come on! Come on! Oh shit! I'm
          sorry boys but it's back!

Doug slams the plunger down on top of his monitor. It sticks.

                       DOUG (CONT'D)
          It's back!

                    SCOTT (O.S.)
          You had them--

                       DOUG
          Back!

The office erupts into cheers and laughter as Jim enters the
office. After a moment he clears his throat.

Beat.


INT. MIDWAY DINER, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike and Doug sit across from Jim in their usual booth.
Waitress #1 places their food on the table.

                       DOUG
          Thank you.

                    MIKE
          Thank you so much.

                    JIM
          Nothing for me, thanks.
                                                        20.


Doug holds Jim's BUSINESS CARD -- the phone number for
SUTHERLAND-SCHULTZ is scratched out and another is written in
pen...

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          So, I know how to sell your phone.
          I know how to market it, and I know
          who we can sell it to.

                    MIKE
          Who?

Doug looks up from the business card.

                    DOUG
          What do you mean "We"?

                    JIM
          Here's the deal. I will leave my
          job at Sutherland-Schultz if you
          make me CEO of Research in Motion.

                    DOUG
          Are you serious?

                    JIM
          That was the worst product pitch
          I've ever seen in my life. You guys
          don't stand a chance out there. You
          need me.

                    DOUG
          Sorry... I don't know who you think
          you are, but WE, are just fine. We
          have a sixteen million dollar deal
          with U.S. Robotics.

                    JIM
          Sixteen million?

                    DOUG
          That's right.

                    JIM
          Wow. Okay and what did they buy?

                    DOUG
          Modems. Ever heard of `em?

                    JIM
          Are they like The Force in Star
          Wars?
                                                        21.


                    DOUG
          Very funny. You know, your logo
          literally is SS?

                    JIM
          And how much have they paid you on
          that 16 million?

                    MIKE
          Yeah, nothing.

                      JIM
          Zero?

                    DOUG
          Nothing yet. We haven't delivered
          the modems.

Doug looks to Mike.

                    MIKE
          Well, we shipped them product
          samples months ago. Their
          accounting department won't even
          return our phone-calls.

                    DOUG
             (to Mike)
          Yeah, but... They're... What's
          going on? They are going to pay us.
          We have a sixteen million dollar
          deal with U.S. Robotics.

                    JIM
          Yeah, so, uh, you guys are getting
          fucked.

                    MIKE
          Why would you? Why do think? Why do
          you say that?

                    JIM
          Well because I would do the same
          thing. Little operation like
          yours... They know they can
          withhold payment until the last
          possible second and then crush you.
          These guys, they're.. they're
          pirates.

The Waitress arrives and puts the bill down -- Doug quickly
grabs it.
                                                           22.


                    DOUG
          Uh huh. We got it. Thank you. Um.

Doug pulls out his wallet -- snaps open the change pouch.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          How do you know anything? What the
          fuck do I care.
             (to Mike)
          How much money do you got?

Mike pulls a random assortment of coins from his pocket and
lays them on the table.

Jim watches these two titans of business negotiate $2.43.

                      MIKE (O.S.)
          Yeah. Um.

                    DOUG (O.S.)
          How about I get that tip? Two, two
          fifty?

                    JIM
          Okay. Guys. Here's what I'm going
          to do. I will give you $20,000,
          cash, today. I'll sell the phone,
          I'll work out this problem with USR
          but I want 50% of the company. And
          I've gotta be CEO.

Mike looks at Doug like "what do you think?"

             DOUG                                MIKE
Are you joking? No.                 Well, let's think about it
Obviously. No. No.

                      DOUG
          Mike?

                    MIKE
          Okay.. Okay.

                    JIM
          Who is in charge here?

                    MIKE
          Oh, I mean, technically--

                    DOUG
          Mike's in charge, and he says no.

                    MIKE
          I am in charge and I say... sorry.
                                                        23.


                    DOUG
          You don't need to do what this guy
          says! We just met him! He's not
          your dad.

                    JIM
          Okay.

Beat.

Jim gets up -- puts down a twenty -- walks out.

                    MIKE
          Thanks. Thank you.

                    DOUG
          Very sassy man, would you say? He
          had... he had a sass --

                    MIKE
          Modems, ever heard of those or
          whatever?

                    DOUG
          No, I sassed him too but he sassed
          me back. And what's he trying to
          say we don't have our modem deal?


INT. STORAGE ROOM, RIM 1, WATERLOO - DAY

The makeshift storage room in a corner office, is PACKED with
boxes labelled MODEMS FOR USR. Floor to ceiling.

Mike paces with a phone to his ear...

It's RINGING...

Mike looks out the door into the office. A few of the guys
solder modems while other play DOOM.

                     USR RECEPTIONIST (O.S.)
          U.S. Robotics, how may I direct
          your call?

                    MIKE
          Uh, yeah. It's Mike Lazaridis...
          From Research in Motion... We're
          actually building circuit boards
          for you guys--

                    USR RECEPTIONIST (O.S.)
          One moment please.
                                                        24.


Click. Hold.

Mike is distracted from the BLINKING RED LIGHT of their USR V-
SERIES MODEM.

                    CASEY COWELL
          Mike, is that you?

                    MIKE
          Yes. Hi. So uh. I was just
          wondering if it would, if it would
          be at all possible for us to uh,
          invoice you for the first half, or,
          uh third of our um, of your order
          from us. If... If... Can we, can we
          invoice you for some, some of our
          order?

Beat.

                    CASEY COWELL (O.S.)
             (laughing)
          What? What?

                    MIKE
          ... If that's okay?

                    CASEY COWELL (O.S.)
          Did you not get my fax?

                    MIKE
          Uh. We don't have a fax machine.

                    CASEY COWELL (O.S.)
          Mike... Those modems you sent us
          back in March. They were defective.

                    MIKE
          I'm sorry, what?

                    CASEY COWELL (O.S.)
          Yeah. They didn't work. We had to
          cancel the whole order but this
          was months ago, buddy.

Mike looks to the stack of modems behind him.


                    CASEY COWELL (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          I really thought you guys had a fax
          machine. Hey, I'll tell you what.
          Why don't you let me make it up to
          you? I'll have USR send you one,
          free of charge. On me. Okay?
                                                          25.


                    MIKE
          Um. Yeah. Okay. Thanks.

                    CASEY COWELL (O.S.)
          Great, okay, well good luck Mike.

                     MIKE
          Yeah.

                     CASEY COWELL (O.S.)
          Bye bye.

                     MIKE
          Bye.

Click.

Mike lowers the phone -- his eyes shift to Doug... They share
a look.

                     DOUG
          What?


INT. SMALL CONFERENCE ROOM, RIM 1, WATERLOO - MOMENTS LATER

Doug has clearly received the bad news.

                    DOUG
          Here's what you gotta do. You got
          to call him back. You gotta
          Glengarry Glen Ross this guy. You
          gotta grind him!

                    MIKE
          Yeah. I don't think I can grind
          him.

                    DOUG
          This is exactly what that Rolex-Guy
          said was gonna happen, right? He
          predicted it. What did he say? He
          said U.S. Robotics are pirates. He
          was fucking dead on.

Mike looks around the mess on the boardroom desk. Amidst the
circuit boards, disassembled electronics and unpaid bills, he
finds what he's looking for -- Jim's folded business card.
Mike reaches for the phone -- picks it up -- hears the
GARBLED TECH BLARE of a dial up modem --

Mike looks into the office and sees Steve with Netscape
Navigator open to the Hotwired home page.
                                                      26.


                    MIKE
             (to Steve)
          Hey. Steve - Steve, I need the
          phone line.

                    STEVE
             (typing fast in a forum)
          Some guy is trying to say Noonian
          Soong is a Q...

                    MIKE
          Yep thanks..

                     STEVE (O.S.)
          Alright.

                    DOUG
          What are you doing?

                    MIKE
          I think we should take this deal.

                    DOUG
          No. So, you don't get into business
          with people like this. That guy is
          sketchy.

                    MIKE
          I think... He's - I don't think
          he's sketchy.

Doug picks up Jim's business card -- holds it up.

                    DOUG
          His business card is literally
          SKETCHED OUT!

Mike looks at the card...

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          The guy's a shark.

                    MIKE
          Okay. Do you know.. Do you know
          who's afraid of sharks? Pirates.

                     DOUG
          Oh fuck.


INT. SMALL CONFERENCE ROOM, RIM 1, WATERLOO - NIGHT

Mike sits across from Doug, phone at his ear.
                                                        27.


                    MIKE
             (into receiver)
          Um. So uh, we've been talking here
          and we, uh - We would like to make
          a counter offer.

Doug mimes a phone.

                    DOUG
          You came crawling back. Like bugs.
          Like grubs.

It's just a rehearsal...

                    MIKE
          Yeah um, so, we would like to offer
          you --

Doug covers his mimed phone receiver and whispers to Mike.

                    DOUG
             (Whispering)
          Low.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Ten percent for five-hundred-
          thousand dollars.

                    DOUG
             (as Jim)
          Are you out of your fucking mind?!
          I look at a hundred thousand deals
          a day. I pick one!
             (as Doug)
          Is that the quote? No.
             (as Jim)
          I look at a hundred deals a day. I
          pick one!
             (as Doug)
          Wall Street.

                    MIKE
          Uh, okay. Uhhh. 25% for $250,000.

                    DOUG
             (as Jim)
          50% for fifty bucks!

                    MIKE
          33% for $125,000 and you can run
          the company with me.
                                                           28.


                     DOUG
             (as Doug)
          Mike! No! No!!
             (as Jim)
          Yes, deal.
             (back to Doug)
          Easy. Dude. It's going to be
          totally fine. You are going to
          negotiate this guy to death.


INT. LIVING ROOM, JIM'S TOWNHOUSE, WATERLOO - NIGHT

Jim sits in front of the TV. Leafs vs Canadiens.

                    HOCKEY ANNOUNCER
          Shoots! Right on. Potvin covered.
          Malakhov? No shot. Turgeon, in too
          far. Scores!

Leafs down 1-0.

                    HOCKEY ANNOUNCER (CONT'D)
          He fooled everybody and banked it
          in off Potvin.

He eats Ruffles right from the bag.

The PHONE RINGS -- Jim picks it up beside him, eyes fixed on
the TV...

                    JIM
          Yeah?

Jim keeps staring at the TV.


INT. SMALL CONFERENCE ROOM, RIM 1, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

                    MIKE (O.S.)
          Hi Jim! It's Mike Lazaridis from
          Research in Motion, we met at the
          office the other day.

Mike waits anxiously for the right moment to "negotiate Jim
to deal" -- Doug is keyed up, standing on the desk...

                    DOUG
             (whispering)
          Low. Low.

Mike looks up at Doug in a panic. Doug waves him on like "Go!
Go!" Mike looks down at his handwritten notes...
                                                           29.


                    MIKE
          So. We'd like to offer you 33% of
          our company for $125,000 and you
          and I would be Co-CEOs.

Doug shakes his hands like "wtf are you doing you idiot that
was our final price, holy shit you just fucked us!!!" Mike
covers his face in shame. He fucked up. He really fucked up.


INT. LIVING ROOM, JIM'S TOWNHOUSE, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

Beat. Jim is clearly distracted.

                    JIM
          Sure.

Jim hangs up.


INT. SMALL CONFERENCE ROOM, RIM 1, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

Mike is completely stunned.

Doug waves him out of it. Mike looks up in pure disbelief.

                    MIKE
          Deal.

                    DOUG
          Awesome! Awesome! Dude! Mike!

Doug looks out into the office, sees Scott still working.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          Scott! Scott! He did it!

                    SCOTT
          What do you mean?

                    DOUG
          Have you not heard anything that's
          been going on in this room?


EXT. STRIP PLAZA, RIM 1, WATERLOO - DAY

Jim arrives at RIM in his BMW.


INT. SMALL CONFERENCE ROOM, RIM 1, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

Mike watches Jim put the roof of his convertible up and get
out of his car.
                                                        30.


                    MIKE
          Maybe you should tell him about the
          modems?

                    DOUG
          Oh! Where do you want to put him?


INT. JIM'S OFFICE, RIM 1, WATERLOO - DAY

The storage room has been rearranged to make room for Jim. A
DESK IN A BOX sits in the middle of the room with a phone on
top of it.

Mike and Doug stand at the door as Jim takes it in.

                    JIM
          What the fuck is this?

                    DOUG
          That's uh, yeah, everyone builds
          their own desk. That's a tradition.

                    JIM
          Yeah. I'm not doing that.

Beat.

                    MIKE
          Um, U.S. Robotics pulled out of the
          deal.

                    JIM
          Told ya. What's our exposure?

                    MIKE
          ...Exposure?

                    JIM
          How much money did you spend on the
          modems?

                    MIKE
          Oh. One-point-six million.

Jim drops the smile. Doug looks at Mike.


             JIM                             DOUG
What?                           One point what?

                    MIKE
          We spent one-point-six million in
          materials and labour.
                                                          31.


                    JIM
          Where'd you get one-point-six
          million dollars?

                    MIKE
          I got a loan from the Bank of
          Montreal.

                    DOUG (O.S.)
          Mike, come on..

-- Jim shouts outside the room --

                    JIM
          Get me U.S. Robotics!

Beat.

                    DOUG
          Uh, sorry, who are you talking to?

                    MIKE
          Yeah?

Jim realizes he doesn't have an assistant here -- picks up
the phone himself -- GARBLED TECH SOUND of the modem blares
through the speaker -- Jim pulls the phone away.

                    JIM
          What the fuck is that?

                    MIKE
          Oh. It's called a carrier wave.
             (beat)
          The calling modem is uh --

Jim hangs up the phone -- turns -- scans the main room...

...sees STEVE on his computer, browser open --

                    JIM
          Hey!

Everyone in the office turns around, including Steve...

Jim points right at him...

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          Get off the fucking internet!

Steve pulls the plug out of the wall and throws his hands in
the air as though he's being arrested.

Mike hands Jim a USR business card.
                                                           32.


                    MIKE
          I think it's Casey.

                    JIM
          Uh huh.

                    DOUG
             (to Steve)
          It's going to be fine. It's going
          to be fine.

Jim dials...

                     DOUG (CONT'D)
             (to Jim)
          You don't get to talk to our team
          like that.
             (to Mike)
          He doesn't get to talk to our team
          like that.

CLICK.

                    CASEY COWELL (O.S.)
          Mike!

                    JIM
          Hi, actually no, this is Jim
          Balsillie. I'm CEO here now.

                    DOUG
          Co-CEO.

                    CASEY COWELL (O.S.)
          Okay. Jim, what can I do for ya?

                    JIM
          I wanna talk about these modems.

                    CASEY COWELL (O.S.)
          There's nothing to talk about
          sadly. We can't accept a defective
          product.

                    DOUG
             (to Mike)
          This is not working --

Mike cuts him off, he wants to listen to the negotiator.

                    JIM
          Let's cut the bullshit here. Two-
          point-five Million all in for the
          entire order.
                                                     33.


                    CASEY COWELL (O.S.)
          Yeah, no. Can't do it, Jim.

                    JIM
          I'll decimate it for you. One-point-
          six Million. And if you don't take
          that I'll turn around and sell them
          to Rockwell for even less.

Mike and Doug can't believe what they're watching.

                    MIKE
          (whispers to Doug)
          Nice negotiation.

Beat.

                    CASEY COWELL (O.S.)
          Okay, how about this. We'll take
          the modems, if you throw in the
          patent on Mike's phone.

Jim shoots Mike a look --

                    JIM
          What phone?

                    CASEY COWELL (O.S.)
          I thought we weren't bullshitting
          each other, Jim? We've been
          building our own for a year... We
          want Mikes --

Jim hangs up.

                     JIM
          How long to build a prototype of
          the phone?

                    MIKE
          PocketLink? Yeah um, a year.

                    JIM
          No, no, no. A prototype Mike. A
          shell I can wave around in a
          meeting. It can be a complete piece
          of shit.

                    MIKE
          No it can't - We're not doing that.

                    DOUG
          Mike's not doing that.
                                                        34.


                      JIM
            Listen to me. U.S. Robotics is
            building their own phone. We're now
            in a race to get this thing to
            market and we're a year behind. So
            I don't care what you need to do,
            get these fucking nerds to drop
            everything and build this fucking
            phone!

The guys turn to see ALLAN at the door...

                      JIM (CONT'D)
            WHAT?

                      ALLAN
            Sorry guys. Um, my girlfriend tried
            to cash my cheque this morning and
            it bounced. Um and she said I'm not
            supposed to come in - allowed - I
            shouldn't come in here anymore. And
            she agreed... I won't be coming in
            here any longer until I'm getting
            paid.

Jim picks up the phone -- THROWS IT AGAINST THE GROUND --
makes for the exit -- SLAMS the door shut.

Mike picks up Jim's destroyed phone -- walks out --

                      MIKE
            I can fix this.


INT. BANK, WATERLOO - DAY

Jim sits across from a BANK MANAGER at her computer.

                      BANK MANAGER
            OK. Research in Motion... Looks
            like your account has exceeded its
            overdraft balance.

                      JIM
            Didn't they just deposit a cheque
            for $125,000 from me?

Typing...

                      BANK MANAGER
            Yes.

Beat.
                                                        35.


                    JIM
          Okay... Alright. Um. I have a
          mortgage with you guys. Can we pull
          that up please?

                    BANK MANAGER
          Spell your last name please?

                    JIM
          B-a-l-s-i-l-l-i-e

                    BANK MANAGER
          Ball-sillie?

                       JIM
          Balsillie.


INT. MAIN OFFICE, RIM 1, WATERLOO - DAY

Doug, having assembled Jim's desk looks for a chair to pair
with it.

                    DOUG
          Anybody going to miss this red
          chair?

          ENGINEERS                             ETHAN
No.                              You're good.

Jim enters the office with SHELLEY (30), his assistant from
Sutherland-Schultz. She follows him with a small box of her
belongings. The staff at RIM instantly orient towards her, as
if a woman has never been anywhere near this office.

Jim holds NEW CHEQUES over his head.

                    JIM
          Alright, everybody! Listen up! From
          now on cheques will be coming every
          two weeks. You will come get them
          from Shelley. This is Shelley.

                       SHELLEY
          Hi.

Jim pushes one of the engineers's desk so it sits outside his
corner office.

                    JIM
          Alright. That's you, Shel.

Shelley puts her things down and starts organizing. The staff
remain silent and still, unsure of how to behave around her.
                                                           36.


                       JIM (CONT'D)
          Mike!

Mike picks up Jim's fixed phone and proceeds towards his
office, passes Doug.

                       DOUG
          Me too?

                       MIKE
          Yeah sure.


INT. JIM'S OFFICE, RIM 1, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

Jim is unpacking his things and plugs in his new INTERCOM
(same model as the one in his Sutherland-Schultz office) --
the HISS begins to emanate from the machine as Mike and Doug
creep in -- Mike holding Jim's REPAIRED PHONE.

                    DOUG
          Um, sorry, who... so, who is
          Shelley?

Jim hits a button on his intercom --

                       JIM
          Shelley?

Mike and Doug look at the intercom. Same STATIC HISS...

                    DOUG
          Oh, dude. That thing's haunting
          you.

                    JIM
          No, I'm motivating you, and don't
          call me "that thing", I'm your
          boss.

                    DOUG
          No, you're not.

In walks Shelley.

                       SHELLEY
          Yeah?

                    JIM
          Get me John Woodman at Bell
          Atlantic.

                    SHELLEY
          You got it.
                                                37.


Shelley leaves.

                    MIKE
          Wait. What are you doing?

                    JIM
          We're selling the phone. Mike. I
          need a prototype.

                    MIKE
          I told you, I don't, I --

                    SHELLEY (O.S.)
          Connecting you.

RING... STATIC GETTING LOUDER...

                    JIM
          Guys. We are over a million dollars
          in debt with no assets, no
          contracts, and no products.

Someone picks up the line.

                    BELL ASSISTANT (O.S.)
          John Woodman's office.

                    JIM
             (changes tone)
          Hiiiii. This is Jim Balsillie, CEO
          of Research in Motion.

                    DOUG
          Co-CEO.

Jim motions to Doug to shut up.

                    BELL ASSISTANT (O.S.)
          One moment please.

                    JIM
             (to Mike)
          Okay?

                    DOUG
          No! He said there's no phone!

                    JIM
          I'm not asking you!

                    JIM (CONT'D)
             (to Mike)
          Mike...?
                                                        38.


                    MIKE
          Okay.

                    DOUG
          Okay? Well, what do you mean
          "okay"? No. No. No. Wait, wait a
          minute. Wait a minute. Wait a
          minute. Wait a minute. Wait a
          minute.

                    JOHN WOODMAN (O.S.)
          John Woodman...

                    JIM
          Mr. Woodman, I am about to make you
          insanely rich.

Doug can't take it anymore -- reaches out and hangs up the
phone -- Jim looks up like "are you ready to die?"

                    DOUG
          Mike does not agree with this.

                    JIM
          He just fucking did!

                    DOUG
          That was duress. Okay? You're
          manipulating him! It's obvious.
             (to Mike)
          What do you want me to do? What?

                    MIKE
          So, there's a reason why your
          intercom is emitting white noise.
          It's because it was manufactured in
          China by engineers who didn't care,
          and now every office in the world
          has to suffer an annoying hiss, a
          blinking red light, fifteen
          different power cords that are
          utterly incompatible with one
          another. So, uh. We are not doing
          that. We are not just adding to the
          hiss. I will build a prototype, but
          I'll do it perfectly or I don't do
          it.

                    JIM
          Mike, are you familiar with the
          saying "Perfect is the enemy of
          good?"
                                                        39.


                    MIKE
          Well, "Good Enough" is the enemy of
          humanity.

Beat.

Mike leaves, having made his point. Doug follows.

Jim waits a beat...

...hits the intercom --

                    JIM
          Shelley, get John Woodman back on
          please.


INT. MAIN OFFICE, RIM 1, WATERLOO - MOMENTS LATER

Mike and Doug sit with the boys. Doug is hyped.

                    DOUG
          ...So I reach out, hang up the
          phone. He looks up at me like "are
          you ready to die?"

Laughter from the group.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          No, no, no, and I'm prepared to die
          on it, right? Mike steps in between
          us, brings the glasses down and
          goes "bitch, I tell you when you
          when we set the god damn meeting".
          And he backs off.

The guys are impressed.

Jim enters. He's putting on his blazer to leave for the day.

                    JIM
          Alright. Woodman wants to see it.
          We're going to Bell Atlantic
          tomorrow.

                    MIKE
          What? What?

                    JIM
          New York City. Tomorrow.

                    DOUG
          But. He said--
                                                         40.


                    JIM
          You've got until 8am.

                    MIKE
          ...to do what?

Jim turns and walks out. The room is stunned silent.

                    PRANAY
          So you didn't call him a bitch, did
          you?

                    DOUG
          Okay, new plan, everybody we are
          all going to chip in and build this
          thing tonight. Okay.

Mike stands up -- goes to his desk.


BUILDING MONTAGE BEGINS


INT. NUTECH ELECTRONICS, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike and Doug look around at all kinds of hardware and
electronic gak.

                    MIKE
          Alright. Give me a fillmore toggle
          switch, give me a 33 PF--

                    DOUG
          Yeah.

Mike compares a few SPEAK AND SPELLS, VTECH WHIZ-KIDS, and
anything else he can find with keyboards, letters or numbers.

                    MIKE
          I think it's like, something kind
          of like a hybrid of one. So, I like
          the look of--

Doug is distracted looking at two different TMNT figurines.


EXT. TOYS'R'US, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike and Doug rush to the car with bags full of gear.


INT. SMALL CONFERENCE ROOM, RIM 1, WATERLOO - DAY

Ethan and Scott waste time.
                                                         41.


                    ETHAN
          I thought you were playing Civ.

Mike and Doug enter the office with the goods.

                    DOUG
          We're back!

- They rip open boxes and take toys apart.

- They separate everything into piles; circuit boards,
keypads, wires, plastic and metal frames, displays...

                    MIKE
          What feels better?

                    DOUG
          That's why to me, like, remote
          controls, things that people are
          used to touching, and the buttons
          need to be small enough that --

- Doug and Scott look over Ethan's shoulder at his computer
monitor.

                    SCOTT
          Nero connection lost it's --

- Scott heads out for the night.

                    DOUG
          Taking off?

                    SCOTT
          Yeah. I'll see you guys tomorrow?

                      DOUG
          Uh, yeah.

- Doug and Mike look at the print out together, mull it over.

                    MIKE
          So, add in the lithium ion--

- Mike works on the hardware/casing.

- Mike looks over Doug's shoulder as he solders.

                    DOUG
          Still hot. Still hot. You're good.

Montage Ends
                                                        42.


INT. MAIN OFFICE, RIM 1, WATERLOO - EARLY MORNING

Doug is asleep on the conference table.

A CAR HORN HONKS from outside. Doug shoots up.

                    DOUG
             (groggy)
          I had a dream we were rich.

Mike, still awake, opens the blinds revealing the early
morning sun and Jim waiting outside his BMW. Jim honks again.

Doug rolls over to see what Mike did while he was asleep --
his eyes light up -- he picks up THE PROTOTYPE -- stares at
it. We can only see the back of it in his hands.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          "And sometimes my dreams occur
          exactly as I dreamt them."

                    JIM
             (from the car)
          MIKE! LETS GO!

                    MIKE
          What's that from?

                    DOUG
          Dune.


EXT. STRIP PLAZA, RIM 1, WATERLOO - MOMENTS LATER

Mike emerges from the building clutching a heavy-duty
carrying case. Jim's in the driver's seat with the engine
running. Mike leans in the passenger window, sees a TAILORED
SUIT draped across the seat in a garment bag.

                    JIM
          You'll get dressed at the airport.

                    MIKE
          Thank you. Um, should Doug come
          with us or...?

                    JIM
          No.

                    MIKE
          Cause... He has a lot to do with
          this.
                                                        43.


                    JIM
          He's a goof. Get in the car.

                    MIKE
          I think he really wants to come.

                    JIM
          Lemme tell you the best advice I
          ever got at Harvard. If you want to
          be great, you need to sacrifice.
          And the more painful the sacrifice,
          the greater you'll be.

                    MIKE
          He's my best friend.

                    JIM
          Okay great, I saw him put a toilet
          plunger on a computer.

Doug watches from the window as Mike gets into the car and
closes the door.


INT. GATE 36, PEARSON AIRPORT, TORONTO - DAY

Mike and Jim sit at the gate with the other travelers waiting
to board. Mike, wearing his new suit, sleeps.

                    INTERCOMM (O.S.)
          Attention passengers on flight AC42
          to New York. Your flight is now
          boarding.

Jim elbows Mike awake.

                      JIM
          Mike.

Mike jolts up dropping the prototype case.

                      JIM (CONT'D)
          Oh, Mike.


EXT. JFK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, NYC - DAY

Mike and Jim emerge from the terminal. Mike moves awkwardly
in his new shoes, clutching the prototype close to his body.

Jim hails a taxi.

They climb in.
                                                        44.


INT. CAB, NYC - LATER

Mike excitedly raps on the prototype case, looking out the
window at the big city-- he takes out a Tupperware of fruit --
starts eating -- drops a piece of fruit on his shirt, leaving
a dark stain -- he tries to rub it out -- Jim watches in
dismay...

                    JIM
          So, if you hear me crinkling a
          piece of paper, that means stop
          talking.

                    MIKE
          Like, in general or...?

                    JIM
          No. In the pitch.

                    MIKE
          Oh. Yeah. Gotcha.

Jim notices the car is moving too slow for him.

                    JIM
             (to driver)
          Hey, we gotta move here, man! My
          wife's in labour. Let's go.

The driver floors it!

Mike looks at Jim, evaluating his feelings about that lie...

                    MIKE
          May I ask why your business card
          had the phone number crossed out?

                    JIM
          I have no idea what you're talking
          about.

Beat.

                    MIKE
          Hey, let's make a deal, okay? You
          and I never lie to each other.

The cab stops.

                    JIM
          Sure. I didn't quit my job. I was
          fired. I just mortgaged my house to
          pay our staff. So, if this doesn't
          work out, I'm fucked.
                                                         45.


Beat.

                    MIKE
          Why'd they fire you?

                    JIM
          `Cause they're idiots.

Jim gets out... Mike follows.. Forgetting the prototype case
in the taxi.


INT. RECEPTION, BELL ATLANTIC HQ, NYC - DAY

Elevator doors open onto the 80th floor -- Jim and Mike exit.

The BELL ASSISTANT greets them.

                    BELL ASSISTANT
          Hi. Research in Motion?

                    JIM
          How are ya?

                    BELL ASSISTANT
          Fantastic. Can I get you anything?
          Coffee? Water?

                    JIM
          We're good. We're good.

                    BELL ASSISTANT
          Okay. They'll be with you shortly.

             MIKE                    BELL ASSISTANT (CONT'D)
Okay. Thank you.                  Alright.

The Assistant directs them towards a small waiting area. Mike
nervously raps on his legs -- stops -- looks down.

Suddenly Mike becomes panicked -- he looks around --

                    MIKE
          Jim...

                    JIM
          No. No. No. No. Never take the
          drinks. Thirst is a display of
          weakness.

                    MIKE
          No. I may have forgotten the
          phone...
                                                           46.


                    JIM
          Please tell me you're joking.

                    MIKE
          No I'm completely serious.

                    JIM
          Fuck!

Jim realizes he's making a scene -- drags Mike back to the
elevator bank...

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          Alright, here's what we're going to
          do. I need you to draw out a little
          sketch. Something that shows the
          keyboard just like you did in my
          office --

-- Jim walks over to the Assistant --

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          Excuse me miss, could I trouble you
          for a pen and paper please?

DING. The elevator opens and Mike goes inside. Jim turns
around just in time to see the doors close behind Mike.

                    BELL ASSISTANT
          They're ready for you.

                    JIM
          Great.


INT. BOARDROOM, BELL ATLANTIC HQ, NYC - CONTINUOUS

The room is PACKED with Executives. CEO JOHN WOODMAN (late
50s, no tie) sits dead centre.

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Oh wait, wait. Here he is. Hey.

                    JIM
          Hi.

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Hi.

                    JIM
          How are you?
                                                        47.


                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Good. Good. We uh, are we waiting
          for anyone?

Jim looks back to John --

                       JIM
          I'm alone.

                       JOHN WOODMAN
          Okay.

                    JIM
          Good.
             (beat)
          Alright, guys. Here's how I see it.
          I know your marketing team tells
          you that you sell togetherness -
          family, "staying connected"
          whatever. But, let's be honest, you
          sell minutes. Period. I mean, your
          market is minutes. So, your biggest
          competitor isn't other cell phone
          companies, it's home phones and
          office phones. Those are free
          minutes. Those are wasted minutes.
          So, how do we get those minutes
          back?

Jim lets the question hang in the air.

                     JIM (CONT'D)
          We reinvent the cell phone. We put
          a computer in it. We put the
          internet in it. We make your
          cellphone so fucking useful that
          you never have to come to the
          office again. Does email, text
          messaging, however you want to
          communicate. Total individualism
          all in one device, that fits in
          your fist.

Jim thinks he has them, is moving in for the kill.

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          So, you can tell your marketing
          team you're not selling
          togetherness anymore. You're
          selling self reliance.

But John seems a bit bored, he and the execs share a look.
                                                        48.


                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Uh, you are not a tech guy, are ya?

                    JIM
          I'm not a -- ?

                     JOHN WOODMAN
          The whole world, the whole fucking
          world is trying to do emails on a
          cell phone. We had an entire
          devision working on it for, I don't
          know, eight months or so? You know
          how many phones they got to at the
          same time?

Jim is frozen.

                    JOHN WOODMAN (CONT'D)
          Eleven. It's a network that's
          built for pagers. That's all it can
          do. You're in La La land on this
          one, kid. I think, you know, some
          nerds took you for a ride.

The walls close in around Jim. Outta options. Backed into a
corner...

                     JIM
          Okay.

Knock knock knock.

Jim turns to see Mike outside the glass of the boardroom, out
of breath -- Mike points at the prototype with a big smile --
Jim marches at him with embarrassment -- Jim opens the door a
crack for a private exchange with Mike...

                     JIM (CONT'D)
          Mike...

                    MIKE
          What happened?

                    JIM
          It won't work.

                    MIKE
          What do you mean it won't work?

                    JIM
          Mike. They tried it already.
                                                        49.


                    MIKE
             (to the room)
          How did you try this already?

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Hey guys, I think the meeting is
          over.

                    MIKE
          Did you just put your devices
          directly on the network as though
          they were clients?

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          ...That's right.

                    MIKE
          Yeah. Right and so what'd you get,
          like ten phones working at the same
          time?

Beat. That earned him their attention.

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Uh.. yeah..

Mike hands Jim the prototype box --

                    MIKE
             (to Jim)
          Here, just hold this a second.

-- walks over to the whiteboard --

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Okay so, here's your issue: When
          you use a phone as a client, what's
          it doing? It's just sitting on your
          network, constantly asking the same
          question "Did I get an email? Did I
          get an email? Did I get an email?"
          So it is forever pulling on your
          servers whether you got an email or
          not. We have a fix, okay?

All at once Mike has gathered his breath and command of the
room. He turns to face the whiteboard him and starts drawing.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          So we are going to build, a giant
          computer, that will act as a sort
          of massive client, that is hard
          wired directly to the internet with
          our phone as server. Okay?
                                                          50.


Mike draws a few more details.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          So, when a user gets an email,
          Waterloo pulls it in, packages it,
          and then sends it.

He draws multiple arrows between Waterloo and his phone
diagram.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          We engage with your network, maybe
          a split second, like...

Mike snaps.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Less time than that.

John is under Mike's spell.

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          So how much - sorry - how many --

                    MIKE
          So a month's worth of traffic would
          be less bandwidth than a local
          phone call. So you could have half
          a million devices working
          simultaneously.

The room is stunned, waits for John's next move.

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Can we see it?

Jim opens the prototype case -- hands it to John --

                    MIKE
          So it's a prototype. It's a long
          way off from, uh, oh it's just a
          long way off. It's a prototype.

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Well it's definitely the world's
          largest pager.

Laughs from his team.

                    MIKE
          No, it's actually the world's
          smallest email terminal.

John looks to Mike.
                                                        51.


                      JOHN WOODMAN
          Oh.

Mike hiccups.

                      MIKE
          Sorry.

John shuts up -- looks down at the device like a precious
jewel. We finally get to see the ramshackle beta of the first
smartphone... It's awesome. Frankenstein's monster but put
together with true precision. John clicks the makeshift
keyboard with one hand, causing text to appear faintly on the
screen...

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          I see, this is uh... Oh this,
          this...? Yeah.

Mike motions to him, to hold it in both hands.

                    MIKE
          Uh. So. Try it with your thumbs,
          try typing with your thumbs.

John gets it now.

                      JOHN WOODMAN
          Oh yeah.

He types some more.

                    JOHN WOODMAN (CONT'D)
          What do you call it?

Oh shit... the name... Jim looks at Mike -- sees the stain on
his shirt...


NEWS MONTAGE #1 (1996-2003) BEGINS

                    OPRAH
          It's called a BlackBerry! It sends
          and receives email messages. It is
          also a cell-phone.

Shots of the BlackBerry device as depicted on Oprah. This
footage is intercut with home movie footage of Mike, Doug and
the Engineering team in the newer, larger and much nicer RIM
offices.

It is a joyous time, filled with excitement, optimism and
hope.
                                                           52.


TITLE CARD: 2003


EXT. RIM 2, PARKING LOT - DAY

Jim approaches the new RIM offices in his Porsche
convertible.

                    PARKING ATTENDANT 1
          Morning Mr. Balsillie.

The gate arm raises allowing Jim to drive through to his
parking spot.

Jim pulls into a spot marked "JIM BALSILLIE Co-CEO."

MONTAGE ENDS


EXT. PARKING LOT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - MOMENTS LATER

Jim gets out of his car -- walks towards the front doors...


INT. ATRIUM, RIM 2, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

Jim enters the bustling lobby with authority. Staff scurry
back and forth through the atrium.

                    RIM EMPLOYEE 1
          Morning Mr. Balsillie.

Big placards on the wall have a huge image of the BLACKBERRY
957 with "Meet Your New Partner" written under it.

A receptionist, PEGGY (20s) smiles at Jim from behind the
reception desk.

                    PEGGY
          Good morning Mr. Balsillie.

Shelley looks up from behind the desk -- stands up and walks
towards Jim with fresh copies of The Wall Street Journal,
Report on Business and The New York Times.

                    JIM
          Mike's here before me?

                    SHELLEY
          He didn't leave last night.

Shelley hands Jim the Wall Street Journal.
                                                        53.


                    SHELLEY (CONT'D)
          You are mentioned on page nine.

Jim flips to it.

                    SHELLEY (CONT'D)
          Carl Yankowski from Palm Pilot
          keeps calling.

                    JIM
          Yeah. Well. Tell him if he wants to
          talk to me he can come to Waterloo.

Shelley jots it all down on her BlackBerry 957 as she follows
Jim.

                    SHELLEY
          That's what I said. Ted Rogers
          wants to have lunch in the city. He
          booked Canoe.

People subtly clear the way as he enters the hallway. He's
indestructible.

                    JIM
          No. I'm not going to fucking
          Toronto unless there's a game. Oh,
          and call Gary Bettman's office
          about those Leaf tickets. Fucker
          tried to stick me in the third row.

                    SHELLEY
          Fucker, third row, got it.


INT. ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike turns to the back corner of the room.

                    MIKE
             (shouting)
          Alright. Try one-fourteen and one-
          fourteen!

Allan, exhausted, types into a screen of code...

                    ALLAN
          Go for 1-1-4.

                    MIKE
          Okay. Sending.

Mike clicks SEND.
                                                         54.


The icon spins...

Mike and Doug stand together in the middle of the room,
flanked by 15 other young engineers, all tired and bleary
eyed. They collectively stare between the BlackBerry 957 in
Mike's hands and the one on the desk beneath them where we
see a Beta version of BlackBerry Messenger with a spinning
icon. It's thinking...

Message sending..

This new engineering department is WAY cleaner and WAY bigger
than RIM 1. The same posters from their first office are now
in glass frames and dozens more have been added. Gone are the
makeshift plywood desks, replaced with sleek, modern office
furniture. But the vibe remains the same.

It seems to be taking forever, but there's still hope and
then --

-- a BBM PING -- Doug looks to Mike...

The room erupts. Engineers are jumping on desks and hugging
and crying with the mania of a successful all-nighter.

                    DOUG
          Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God.
          Mike. Oh my God. Boys! Oh my god.
          Done. Done. Yes! Come on.

Doug hugs Mike.

Mike is ecstatic. True joy. He can't contain it. Everyone in
the room starts jumping together -- until they notice someone
in the doorway...

...and self-consciously stop celebrating in the face of Jim.

                     MIKE
          Hey Jim, we uh... we built a
          messenger.

Jim walks over to Mike's outstretched hand holding his
BlackBerry -- sees what the fuss is about...

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Fully encrypted two-way messaging
          that is absolutely inaccessible by
          anyone including us. It is
          Untrackable. Untraceable.
          Unhackable.
                                                        55.


                    JIM
             (dismissive)
          It's texting.

                    DOUG
          No. Do you know how much it costs
          to send a text message?

                     JIM
          Yeah. Ten cents and the network
          gets every penny. We're never going
          to see that money.

                    MIKE
          Right, but these texts are sent via
          data. So, behind the network's
          back. Which means...

                    JIM
          Unlimited free texting.. Only on
          BlackBerry.

Jim looks around the room.

                      JIM (CONT'D)
          Fuck yes!

Jim starts high-fiving the room. They love it.

                    DOUG
          Hey! Hey hey hey!

                      JIM
          Fuck yes!

MUSIC CUE: Return of the Mack by Mark Morrison blares off of
Doug's Winamp. It's a fucking party.

                    MIKE
          I sent the message that Alexander
          Bell sent to his assistant, Watson
          come here that's what --

Jim can't nerd out with Mike and tries to settle him.

                    JIM
          Let's just.. let's just--

Jim dances awkwardly, trying to celebrate with these guys.
Doug notices. They nod to one another in a moment of "you're
okay".
                                                         56.


We focus on CARL YANKOWSKI (60, nice suit) standing in the
doorway of the Engineering Department. Shelley, flustered,
stands behind him.

                    YANKOWSKI
          What the hell are you guys doing?

Everyone turns to Yankowski. Doug turns off the music.

                    JIM
          Sorry - who are you?

                    YANKOWSKI
          You said if I wanted to talk I had
          to come to Waterloo. So, here I am.

The engineers look confused.

                    JIM
          Gentlemen. Meet Carl Yankowski of
          Palm Pilot.

                    MIKE
          Oh. Really?

                      DOUG
          Booooooo!

                      JIM
          Doug.

                    DOUG
          How ya doing?


INT. MIDWAY DINER, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike and Jim sit across from Yankowski.

                    YANKOWSKI
          ...so I just said three words.
          "Two. Litre. Bottle." You know what
          they said? They said "Carl, NOBODY
          drinks two litres of Mountain Dew."
          I mean, they didn't see what I saw:
          Large pizza, BIG soda, complete
          dinner. We sold a billion litres in
          a month.

Yankowski notices Mike, looking down, both hands under the
table, where he texts with Doug.

Mike (BBM) to Doug: This guy is insane.
                                                          57.


                    YANKOWSKI (CONT'D)
          You playing with yourself under
          there, Mikey?

Mike looks up, confused.

                    YANKOWSKI (CONT'D)
          Alright. Let's clear the air here.
          I had nothing to do with U.S.
          Robotics trying to bankrupt you
          back in `96 - defective modems,
          working modems... Were they
          defective? It was a hundred years
          ago. Who's to say?

                    MIKE
          Me.

Yankowski points to Mike in agreement.

                    YANKOWSKI
          Exactly. Here's what we do. Combine
          BlackBerry and Palm Pilot. One
          product. It's the two-litre-bottle
          of smartphones.

                    MIKE
          Would I still have complete control
          over every aspect of engineering
          and design?

                    YANKOWSKI
          No.

                    MIKE
          Okay well, it's going to be uh - we
          won't be able to move ahead with
          this. I'm, I'm... sorry. Sorry.

Yankowski takes out his PALM PILOT 7 -- extends the built-in
antenna -- starts TAPPING on the screen with a stylus...

                    YANKOWSKI
          You guys love saying "sorry", don't
          you? Okay. Let's see what you
          closed at? Four-dollars-and-fifty
          cents. Oh god is that Canadian?

Mike sees "Made in China" on the back of the PalmPilot.

                    YANKOWSKI (CONT'D)
          U.S. Robotics? Eighty-three
          dollars. Now, that gives us a
          market cap of about...
                    (MORE)
                                                          58.

                    YANKOWSKI (CONT'D)
          forty-five billion. So what would
          happen if I just... I don't know,
          bought up all your shares? Oh,
          what's the word for that again,
          sport? Hostile Takeover.

Jim doesn't flinch. Mike starts to panic.

                    MIKE
             (to Jim)
          Hostile takeover? What the fuck?
          What is happening? We would just
          say - We could just say no. We, we
          own the company --

CRINKLE CRINKLE CRINKLE. Mike stops mid sentence, distracted
by a sound -- he looks down at Jim balling up the PAPER MENU.

                    JIM
          You know, Carl. You got a deal.

Mike bites his tongue.

                    CARL YANKOWSKI
          Yeah?

                    JIM
          Yeah. Give us a couple months to
          get our people taken care of and
          then we'll uh, agree to a private
          sale.

                    MIKE
          Wait, just uh --

Mike raises a finger to interject. Jim puts his hand up
beside him.

                    JIM
          Mike. It's okay. It's okay. It's
          better to get rich now than fight
          this guy in court for the next five
          years.

                    YANKOWSKI
          That's right. You know, I like you.

Mike can't speak. It's his nightmare.

Jim gestures to the TV.

                    JIM
          You like hockey?
                                                        59.


                    YANKOWSKI
          God no. It's moronic. You?

                     JIM
          Hate it.


INT. ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Doug sits with the engineers. They're watching John
Carpenter's They Live. The "Movie Night" banner hangs over
the projector screen. They eat pizza from Supreme 2 for 1
Pizza and Wings. Allan sleeps on a desk.

Using a slice of pizza, Doug points at the screen.

                     RODDY PIPER (ON TV)
          I have come here to chew bubblegum
          and kick ass.. and I'm all out of
          bubblegum.

                    DOUG
          They based Duke Nukem on this guy.
          Like, that is Duke Nukem for real.

The LIGHTS COME ON -- Jim and Mike walk through the door.

                    JIM
          Okay. Party's over.

                     DOUG
          What?

                    JIM
          Listen up. Turn that thing off
          please.

Ethan and Allan attempt to shut the projector off.

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          Turn it off. You guys having fun?
          Because we are about to lose our
          fucking company.

                    DOUG
          What the hell happened at this
          lunch?

The light from the projector shines in Jim's eyes.

                    JIM
          Turn that fucking thing off!
                                                        60.


INT. ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - LATER

Jim stands in front of the engineers, clearly having just
delivered big news. Mike stands beside him, crestfallen.

                    JIM
          Okay?

You could hear a pin drop. Doug raises his hand.

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          Yeah. Doug.

                    DOUG
          So. My question's actually for
          Mike. How are we supposed to sell
          another five hundred thousand
          phones when we're already maxed on
          every network we're on?

Mike doesn't look up -- he just shakes his miserable head.

                    JIM
          You guys will figure it out.

Doug raises his hand again.

                    DOUG
          How - how? If we put more phones on
          these networks they are going to
          crash. Period. We are not allowed
          to sell more phones. Mike?

                    JIM
          No. You don't worry about what's
          allowed. I say what's allowed.

                     DOUG
          I don't even understand what the
          problem is here. Who cares if this
          guy wants to buy our company, isn't
          that good?

                    JIM
          I fucking care. That's who cares. I
          care. I'm trying to keep this
          company together, you fuck.

                    DOUG
          I'm sorry. Do you even know what a
          network limit load is?

Mike motions Doug to stop.
                                                           61.


                       MIKE
          Doug.

                    JIM
             (to Mike)
          Talk to me outside for a second?

Jim leads the way to the door. Mike gives Doug one more look
of "please shut up".

                       DOUG
          What?!

Mike follows Jim to the hallway --


INT. HALLWAY, ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2 - CONTINUOUS

                    JIM
          What's a Network Limit Load?

                    MIKE
          This is impossible.

                    JIM
          Well what are we supposed to
          fucking do Mike? Either we jack our
          stock to the moon or Yankowski
          fucks us.

                    MIKE
          Doug is right. Unless the carriers
          rebuild their entire networks
          there's nothing we can do. The
          phones use too much data.

                    JIM
          Well then fucking shrink it?

                    MIKE
          Yeah. Okay. We, we looked into
          that...

                       JIM
          ...Uh huh?

                    MIKE
             (whispering)
          These guys can't do it.

Mike looks past Jim to the room of engineers. They've formed
a little circle around a game of Magic: The Gathering.
                                                          62.


                    JIM
          What do you mean, they can't do it?
          You said they were the best
          engineers in the world.

                     MIKE
          I said they were the best engineers
          in Canada.

Beat.

                    JIM
          Okay. Alright. Who could do it.

                    MIKE
          Maybe top guys from Motorola or
          Microsoft or Google...

Jim pulls out his BlackBerry and opens the notes app --
starts typing.

                     JIM
          Okay.

                    MIKE
          What, what, what are you doing?

                    JIM
          Who else? Where else?

                    DOUG (O.S)
             (muffled through glass)
          John Carmack!

Jim and Mike turn to Doug, who's standing on the other side
of the glass door, trying to listen in.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
             (muffled)
          Get John Carmack! From I.D. Can you
          guys hear me? The guy who made
          Doom?

Jim looks at Mike.

                    JIM
          What's Doom?

                    MIKE
          Have you played Wolfenstein?

Jim is not impressed.
                                                          63.


                     MIKE (CONT'D)
           Just please don't sell anymore
           phones.

Jim walks away.

                     DOUG
           Can you hear me?

                       MIKE
           Yes! YES!

                       DOUG
           Oh. Shit.


INT. SALES ROOM, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

A room of ten young salesmen with the exact opposite vibe of
the engineers. If those were budding Mikes, these are wannabe
Jims. Muscular, sharply dressed, and with great hair cuts.

They're relaxing as though they're in a locker room. Stereo
blasting. One bounces a ball against a wall; another lifts
weights with a spotter. A whiteboard on the wall has
everyone's names with their sales numbers listed.

                     MARK GUIBERT (O.S.)
           What the fuck!

                     JUSTIN FABIAN
           Look at this. I'm on fire.

                     MARK GUIBERT
           Lefty. Lefty. Lefty.

Suddenly Jim marches in. Instant quiet. Presence of the
Master. Mark stands up and turns off the stereo.

                     JIM
           Alright! Listen up, you dead-eyed
           dumb fucks.

Jim tosses a box at DON MCMURTRY throwing him off balance on
his chair. The room sits up -- shares looks with one another.

                     JIM (CONT'D)
           Sorry to cut your little vacation
           short here, but we got some product
           to move.

Murmurs.
                                                         64.


                    DON MCMURTRY (O.S.)
          What product can we move?

                    JIM
          I'm sorry. What's that?

                    DON MCMURTRY
          Well.. I thought the engineers
          said.. We maxxed out uh, our
          networks?

                    JIM
          Yeah. They did, yeah and that's
          their fucking problem, okay? Your
          problem is you need to sell a
          million BlackBerries before Q3.

Bombshell news. Jim gestures to the wall of boxes. The
salesman laugh until they realize Jim's not joking.

                    JUSTIN FABIAN
          Uhhh..

                    JIM
          (Mocking Justin)
          Uhh. Uhh. Uh.

Beat.

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          I'm not fucking joking.

Jim silences them with a look.

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          I want `em gone.

Jim leaves the room. The guys scramble to get their suits and
get out the door.


EXT. RUNWAY, PEARSON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, TORONTO - DAY

Jim runs up the steps of RIM's (rented) Westwind Jet.


INT. WESTWIND JET, TORONTO - DAY

Jim waits for take off. Email Ping!

Email from Yankowski: How about the name PalmBerry?
                                                           65.


EXT. GOOGLE HQ, CA - DAY

Jim walks through the Google Campus with his head held high.


INT. PAUL STANNOS' OFFICE, GOOGLE HQ, MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA - DAY

Jim sits across the desk from PAUL STANNOS (46, BIG glasses),
the name plate on his desk reads "Head of Physical
Engineering".

Paul holds a brand new BlackBerry -- still in the box --

                    PAUL
          Actually, we're talking about
          banning these.

                       JIM
          Banning?

                    PAUL
          Nobody pays attention to meetings
          anymore. They're crouched over..

                    JIM
          Tell them to stop.

                    PAUL
          Okay. We call them CrackBerries.

                    JIM
          Come work for me.

                       PAUL
          I can't.

                       JIM
          Why?

                    PAUL
          Because I am under contract here.

                    JIM
          How much to break it?

                       PAUL
          Excuse me?

                    JIM
          How much money do you want to break
          your contract with Google?

Paul gets up nervously -- walks to the door -- closes it.
                                                        66.


                    JIM (CONT'D)
          I'll give you a million dollars if
          you sign right now.

Paul rushes over to his computer -- unplugs it.

                    PAUL
             (whispering)
          I am not moving to Canada. We are
          not having this conversation.

Jim is surprised his number didn't move the dial.

                    JIM
          Two million.

                      PAUL
          Stop.

                    JIM
          Three million.

                    PAUL
          I need you to leave.

Jim isn't going to lose -- goes for it...

                    JIM
          Ten million.

Beat.

                    PAUL
          Well, you don't have ten million
          dollars.

Jim takes a contract out of his suitcase -- starts amending
it by hand...

                      JIM
          This...   is a million dollar option
          deal. I   will backdate that to when
          RIM was   trading at a dollar.
          Merrill   just gave us a target of
          13.

Jim hands it over. Paul looks down at the contract.

                    PAUL
          Is this legal?


SELLING/RECRUITING MONTAGE BEGINS
                                                         67.


INT/EXT. AIRPORT HANGER - DAY

Jim marches towards his private plane through an operating
machine shop, looking like he owns the place. It's loud. His
BB rings -- looks at it -- picks up...

                       JIM
          Carl!

                       CARL YANKOWSKI (O.S.)
          PalmBerry!

                    JIM
          Eh, listen, I can barely hear you
          buddy!

                    CARL YANKOWSKI (O.S.)
          I said PalmBerry. Isn't that great?

                    JIM
          Listen uh, I'm getting some static
          on the line. Can I call you back?

                    CARL YANKOWSKI (O.S.)
          Jim, I can barely hear you. Jim.

Jim holds the phone up towards the loud engine --

    CARL YANKOWSKI (O.S.)                      JIM
           (CONT'D)               What? Carl? Okay, I'll call
Jim, speak up.                    you later.

He cuts himself off by hanging up -- puts his phone away and
waltzes up the steps of his plane...


INT. RIM'S RENTED WESTWIND JET, 35,000 FEET - DAY

Jim reads an email from Accounting: Just confirming Jim...
10m in stock to Paul Stannos?

Jim replies: Do it.


INT. NOC (NETWORK OPERATIONS CENTRE), RIM 2 - DAY

Close on a computer screen showing the BlackBerry network
usage tick upwards...


INT. ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike and Doug deep in conversation in the engineering
department.
                                                        68.


                    PAUL
          Mike Lazaridis?

Paul Stannos stands at the door to engineering with a box of
personal belongings.

                    MIKE
          If Jim fired you, I can't undo it!
          I'm sorry. I've tried.

                    PAUL
          No, No. I, just got hired. It's
          Paul.

                    DOUG
          How ya doing? Welcome! Where are ya
          coming from?

                    PAUL
          Uh, Google.

                    DOUG
          Nice! What'd, what'd you do?

                    PAUL
          I was the uh, Head of Physical
          Engineering.

The guys look around impressed.


EXT. AIRPORT HANGER - DAY

Jim struts into the airport hanger.

                    JIM (O.S.)
          You are not salesman anymore.
          You're male models.


INT. RACQUET CLUB - DAY

Fabian plays tennis.

                    JIM (O.S.)
          I want you at every Country Club,
          Yacht Club, Tennis Club. Wherever
          the elite go, you go.

Fabian checks his BlackBerry.

                    JIM (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          I want them to see you using it. Be
          big--
                                                        69.


INT. COUNTRY CLUB - DAY

Mark smokes a cigar while checking his Blackberry.

                    JIM (O.S.)
          Be LOUD. Have them thinking, who is
          this annoying prick? And how can I
          be more like him?


INT. TAILORS - DAY

McMurtry gets his suit fitted. He types on his BlackBerry.

                    TAILOR
          What is that?

                    JIM (O.S.)
          And when they ask you--

                    JIM (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          Don't say it's a phone that does
          email... It's not a cell phone...
          It's a status symbol.


EXT. TARMAC, WASHINGTON AIRPORT DAY

Jim hustles down the steps of his plane.


EXT. MICROSOFT, WASHINGTON - DAY

Jim arrives at Microsoft. Makes a deal.


INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

Jim making deals and shaking hands.


INT. COUNTRY CLUB - NIGHT

Mark being showered with business cards.

                    MARK GUIBERT
          Anybody else? Anybody else?
          Alright.


INT. SALES ROOM, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Mark hands Austin more business cards.
                                                           70.


                    AUSTIN
          Hi. I'm calling on behalf of
          BlackBerry. I heard that you're
          interested in buying some of the
          quarks for your corporation.


INT. NOC (NETWORK OPERATIONS CENTRE), RIM 2 - CONTINUOUS

Network ticking up yellow.


INT. RACQUET CLUB - DAY

Fabian schmoozes with the other players.


INT. SALES ROOM, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Fabian shows off his collection of business cards and gives
them to Austin.


INT. NOC (NETWORK OPERATIONS CENTRE), RIM 2 - DAY

Allan monitors the network ticking up yellow.


INT. TAILORS - DAY

The BlackBerry on the tailor's desk catches a customer's eye.


INT. SALES ROOM, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Business cards pile up on Austin's desk.


INT. NOC (NETWORK OPERATIONS CENTRE), RIM 2 - DAY

The network monitor has ticked up into the RED ZONE.

MONTAGE ENDS

FOX 5 NEWS FOOTAGE:

                    FOX REPORTER
          It's 7:55. We are back with Fox 5
          Consumer news. A global BlackBerry
          crisis this morning. The company
          says it's experiencing massive
          service interruptions.
                    (MORE)
                                                           71.

                    FOX REPORTER (CONT'D)
          The company's help line says, users
          can expect delays in sending and
          receiving messages.


ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Everyone is going crazy trying to figure out what happened to
their traffic. Doug handles the phones.

                    DOUG
             (on the phone)
          Yes. Yes. We are aware of the
          problem and uh, we are.. We are
          sorting it out right now. I'll call
          you back.

Doug hangs up. Engineers are scrambling. It's pure chaos.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          What's happening man?

                    SCOTT
          It's all down there!

                    PRANAY
          Are we totally fucked?

Mike leans out from the NOC door --

                    MIKE
          HEY. QUIET!

They shut up. Mike slams the NOC door shut.

                    DOUG
          Let, let, let, let's just keep it
          down out here guys... for a second.


INT. NOC (NETWORK OPERATIONS CENTRE), RIM 2 - CONTINUOUS

Mike closes the door and joins Network Engineer Allan Lewis --
he's sitting in front of A SINGLE LAPTOP in the middle of the
room.

                    MIKE
          How many are down?

                    ALLAN
          Maybe... ten thousand?

                    MIKE
          Jesus. Okay. Okay. Okay.
                                                           72.


RIINNG!

Mike picks up his BlackBerry.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Yeah, hello?

                    AUTOMATED OPERATOR (O.S.)
          You have a collect call from...

                    JIM (O.S.)
          WHAT THE FUCK IS HAPPENING?

                    AUTOMATED OPERATOR (O.S.)
          Will you accept the charges?

Mike is paralyzed with fear...

                    AUTOMATED OPERATOR (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          Are you still there?

                    MIKE
          Yes, I accept.

                       AUTOMATED OPERATOR (O.S.)
          Thank you.

Beat.

                       JIM (O.S.)
          Mike.

                       MIKE
          ...Hi...


EXT. PAYPHONE BOOTH, CALIFORNIA - CONTINUOUS

Jim is in the (Verizon) phone booth.

                    JIM
          There are three reasons why people
          buy our phones. Do you know what
          they are?


INT. NOC (NETWORK OPERATIONS CENTRE), RIM 2 - CONTINUOUS

                    MIKE
          Umm... Email?
                                                           73.


EXT. PAYPHONE BOOTH, CALIFORNIA - CONTINUOUS

                    JIM
          They! Fucking! Work!


INT. NOC (NETWORK OPERATIONS CENTRE), RIM 2 - CONTINUOUS

                    MIKE (O.S.)
          Yeah. Okay. It's not us, Jim. It's
          the carrier. Verizon is doing
          something weird.


EXT. PAYPHONE BOOTH, CALIFORNIA - CONTINUOUS

                    JIM
          Well, I'm about to do "something
          weird" if you don't fix this. NOW.


INT. NOC (NETWORK OPERATIONS CENTRE), RIM 2 - CONTINUOUS

                    JIM (O.S.)
          The deal was, I get the engineers..
          You shrink the data!

Mike suddenly makes the connection --

                    MIKE
          Are, are you, are you selling more
          phones?


EXT. PAYPHONE BOOTH, CALIFORNIA - CONTINUOUS

                    JIM
          What the hell do you think I've
          been doing over here, Mike!? We're
          in the middle of a hostile fucking
          takeover!


INT. NOC (NETWORK OPERATIONS CENTRE), RIM 2 - CONTINUOUS

                     JIM (OS
          Do I need to have someone babysit
          you dorks?

                     MIKE
          Okay...okay... so THAT'S.. okay.
          Yeah, the entire system is
          crashing..
                     (MORE)
                                                           74.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
             (to Allan)
          He's selling more phones..

Allan looks over at Mike with concern.


EXT. PAYPHONE BOOTH, CALIFORNIA - CONTINUOUS

                    JIM
          HEY. GOD DAMN IT.


INT. NOC (NETWORK OPERATIONS CENTRE), RIM 2 - CONTINUOUS

                    MIKE
          Yeah. Yeah. So.. Okay uh. I didn't
          realize.. uh, hold off selling more
          until we --


EXT. PAYPHONE BOOTH, CALIFORNIA - CONTINUOUS

                    JIM
          I'M NOT FUCK --

Jim bashes the receiver against the phone, leaving nothing
but bits behind as he storms off.


INT. OFFICE, MOTOROLA, CHICAGO - DAY

Jim sits opposite RITCHIE CHO (Head of Devices). Ritchie
reads over a contract. Looks up at Jim.

                    RITCHIE
          Okay, sorry, is this technically
          legal?

                     CHARLES PURDY (O.S.)
          Ritchie!

Jim spins around to see CHARLES PURDY (70, heavyset, scary)
standing in Ritchie's doorway...

                    RITCHIE
          I'm actually in a personal meeting,
          Charles.

                    CHARLES PURDY
          And I personally don't give a
          flying fuck! Engineering can't do a
          god damn thing until you send that
          fax! Now take a "meeting" when the
          union isn't ripping my guts out.
                    (MORE)
                                                        75.

                    CHARLES PURDY (CONT'D)
          Do you hear me? Get it done.
             (under his breath)
          Son of a bitch.

Charles SLAMS the door shut -- Ritchie turns to Jim.

                    RITCHIE
          You said you were located in
          Waterloo?

Jim is still looking at the door where Charles stood.

                    JIM
          What is that guy's name?


INT. ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

It's madness. All the new superstar recruits have arrived on
the same day. Doug stands on his chair with his arms in the
air, holding court. Mike watches from the corner of the room.

                    DOUG
          Okay. Okay. Hey everybody. Welcome
          to Research in Motion! I know this
          is a bit disorganized. I promise we
          will get everybody settled. So um,
          in the meantime, we are having a
          bit of a network issue. So, put up
          you hand if you understand Mobitex
          architecture?

Ritchie Cho and Paul Stannos raise their hands.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          Two people. Okay. Uh, that's fine.
          You two, you're with Mike. The rest
          of you, I don't know what you do
          but follow me. We are taking a
          tour! Let's go.

Doug starts a tour --

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          It's going to be a little bit like
          Sam Rockwell in Teenage Ninja
          Turtles in the foot clan. Hands up,
          who's seen it?

Paul and Ritchie walk over to Mike --

                    RITCHIE
          Can I talk to you for a second?
          What is Charles Purdy doing here?
                                                           76.


                    MIKE
          What, what are you talking about?

                    RITCHIE
          The man standing in the hallway
          directly over my left shoulder.

Mike turns around to see Charles Purdy (from Motorola)
standing outside the glass, looking in on the room -- he
turns back --

                       MIKE
          Oh, Jesus.

                    RITCHIE
          Listen to me. That guy will fuck
          you up. Do not let that man
          anywhere near your engineering
          department. Trust me.

                    MIKE
          Yeah. Okay. Alright.

                     RITCHIE
              (to Paul)
          I'm serious. He will fuck your shit
          up.


INT. HALLWAY, ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2 - MOMENTS LATER

Mike opens the door to the hall, hiding his body inside the
room.

                    MIKE
          Can I help you?

                    CHARLES PURDY
          You're Mike? Aren't you?

                    MIKE
          Yes. I'm Mike. What are you doing
          here?

                    CHARLES PURDY
          Charles Purdy. I'm your new COO.

                    MIKE
          Oh. Jim hired you to be the Chief --

                    CHARLES PURDY
          I'm here to get this ship under
          control.
                                                        77.


                    MIKE
          We are under control.

                    CHARLES PURDY
          Oh, really? Whose?

Charles gestures through the glass. It's a party. Doug piggy-
backs Scott around the office.

                       CHARLES PURDY (CONT'D)
          Hmmm?

Mike walks away.


INT. MIDWAY DINER, WATERLOO - DAY

Coffee being poured... Notes being scribbled... Food sits
untouched...

Mike works with Paul and Ritchie on pages and pages of math.

                      PAUL
          Okay. So,   then let's trying
          something   different. Instead of
          shrinking   the data.. Maybe, we
          spread it   out?

The waitress tops up their coffee.

                       PAUL (CONT'D)
          Thank you.

                    RITCHIE
          Well, why not take multiple towers
          in the same zone and split the
          packet between them? We can put it
          back together at the server here.

Mike speaks without looking up from his calculations.

                    MIKE
          We tried that. Here's the problem,
          the towers don't recognize one
          another. Each of them has no idea
          which piece of the signal they're
          receiving and the whole process
          just keeps--

                    PAUL
          Maybe we reprogram the towers?
                                                          78.


                    MIKE
          They're not our towers. We don't
          control them.

                    RITCHIE
          That's okay. At Naughty Dog we had
          to hack the Playstation to get
          Crash Bandicoot running.

Mike lights up, realizing these guys are fucking SMART.

                    MIKE
          Okay. So, if each exchange is
          triangulated, we could divide the
          signal three ways?

Mike takes the salt, pepper, and ketchup -- makes a triangle.

                    PAUL
          No. No. We actually could do way,
          WAY more. Every BlackBerry is a
          server?

                    RITCHIE
          We could divide the signal between
          every user in the same grid?.

                    PAUL
          Divide by Thousands. So, it will be
          like Napster. Distributed network
          of your own users.

                    RITCHIE (O.S.)
          That's gotta be in the terms of
          service.. Hackers would be on it so
          fast.

                    PAUL (O.S.)
          They encrypt everything server
          side, right? Mike? Mike? I mean,
          everything, everything is already
          encrypted. So.

Mike is writing this idea down as fast as he can.

                     RITCHIE (O.S.)
          ...Mike?

                     PAUL
          Mike?

Mike grabs his papers...
                                                        79.


                       MIKE
          Excuse me.

Mike rushes for the door.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          You can have my bacon.

Paul and Ritchie watch him leave.

                    PAUL
          What are they paying you?

                    RITCHIE
          I shouldn't say.

                    PAUL
          They're paying me ten million
          dollars.

                    RITCHIE
          Yeah. Me too.


INT. MIKE'S BMW, PARKING LOT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike screeches into his "LAZARIDIS" parking space. No Jim. No
Doug.


INT. HALLWAY, ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2 - DAY

Mike races down the hallway, clutching his stack of equations
as if someone might steal them.


INT. ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

Mike stops at the doorway to engineering --

We see what Mike is looking at -- his entire staff, old and
new, are setting up for "Movie Night" -- chairs are arranged -
- popcorn is handed out in coffee-filter "bowls" -- a giant
projector screen is pulled down. Scott and a new recruit
balance on swivel chairs to hang the "Movie Night" banner.

                    SCOTT
          Higher on that side. Let's get a
          chair over there.

                    ALLAN
          Oh, yeah. Here you go buddy.
                                                         80.


Mike looks down at the "work" in his hands -- then back at
Movie Night...


INT. CHARLES PURDY'S OFFICE, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike knocks timidly...

                    CHARLES PURDY
          Yes. Come in.

Mike opens the door -- takes one step in -- Charles is
wearing glasses at his desk, reading over a delivery
schedule.

                       MIKE
          Mr. Purdy?

Mike holds up his papers sheepishly.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Yeah. Uh so, first of all, sorry
          about before.


INT. ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - MOMENTS LATER

Staff sit theatre style in anticipation. Smiles. Laughs. The
Disciples of Doug.

                    CHARLES PURDY (O.S.)
          Allan Lewis?!

The room turns around at Charles' booming voice.

                    CHARLES PURDY (CONT'D)
          Which one of you is Allan Lewis?!

Everyone looks at Allan, sitting with his popcorn.

                       ALLAN
          Hello.

                    CHARLES PURDY
          Ah. Michael's had a breakthrough.
          Now, I want these tested. I want
          the report on my desk, Friday.

Charles hands him the papers -- Allan looks at them...

Allan looks up sharply.

                    ALLAN
          When? Sorry?
                                                        81.


                    CHARLES PURDY
          Friday.

The room chuckles in a "this must be a joke" kind of way --
Allan breathes a sigh of relief, thinking Charles was
serious.

                    ALLAN
          This looks like a whole new relay
          system--

                    CHARLES PURDY
          Uh huh.

Allan sobers up.

                    ALLAN
          Testing this will probably take me
          a month.

                    CHARLES PURDY
          Well, then you best get started,
          hadn't you?

                    ALLAN
          ...It's bad luck to work on Movie
          Night.

                    ETHAN
          Can't work on movie night.

The crowd goes quiet.

                    CHARLES PURDY
          You're all children. Is that it?

                    SCOTT
             (laughing)
          Sorry, who are you?

                    CHARLES PURDY
          You think this is funny, is it?

                    SCOTT
          Just wondering who -- who are you?

                    CHARLES PURDY
          I'm Charles Purdy. From this moment
          on you will all work for me. And if
          that work is not done at a pace
          that I expect, you'll be fired.
                    (MORE)
                                                        82.

                     CHARLES PURDY (CONT'D)
          And I'll keep firing until this
          room is full of men and not little
          boys playing with their little
          penises. Now, are there any
          questions?

                    ETHAN
          Um. Where's Doug?


INT. DOUG'S CAR, PARKING LOT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

MUSIC CUE: This is What We Do by MC Hammer blares on the car
stereo.

His `84 Honda Civic (still runs!) pulls into the RIM parking
lot. He wears his orange bandana and sings along...

                     DOUG
              (singing)
          ...My body, It's my body, Take it
          where I want to, Pump it up
          party... My Time is my Time. I make
          my own decisions. Do what I want to
          do.

                    PARKING ATTENDANT 2
          Doug! Let's go bro.

                    DOUG
          Movie night tonight. Movie night.

Doug pulls into his "DOUG" spot next to "LAZARIDIS" and
"BALSILLIE". He takes the cassette out of the tape deck and
transfers it to his yellow Sony walkman. Presses play and
continues to bop to it.


INT. HALLWAY, ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2 - MOMENTS LATER

Doug walks down empty, quiet halls, music still blasting,
oblivious...

... Doug takes off his headphones.

END MUSIC CUE


INT. ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

The "Movie Night" banner is gone. The projector is gone. The
chairs are back at their desks. Everyone is working. Six guys
sit behind Allan's computer, helping with Mike's new code.
                                                           83.


Doug looks at his desk -- the toilet plunger sits in the
garbage can...


INT. MIKE'S OFFICE, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike reads Fundamentals of Microwave Transmission Lines.

Doug storms in --

                    DOUG
          Have you seen this?

                     MIKE
          No.

                    DOUG
          Have you been out there?

                     MIKE
          No.

Mike doesn't look up from his research.

                    DOUG
          Dude. Jim killed Movie Night.
          Actually, what am I saying, he
          didn't have the guts to do it
          himself. Apparently, he got this
          three hundred pound dude to go in
          there and start screaming at
          everybody! Said he was going to
          fire Allan?

No response from Mike.

                     DOUG (CONT'D)
          ...Mike?

                    MIKE
          We do need... We do need to get
          back to work.

Doug gets it -- thinks about leaving...

                    DOUG
          Yeah... Do you not ever wonder why
          these guys are wiling to work
          eighty hours a week? Never see
          their families? Never get any
          credit?
                                                        84.


                    MIKE
          Yeah. It's because they get to work
          on the best phone in the world,
          Doug.

                    DOUG
          Yeah... That must be it.

Doug walks out.


INT. BOARDROOM, VERIZON HQ, NEW YORK - DAY

Jim walks toward the Verizon boardroom.

RING!

                      JIM
          Hello?

                    YANKOWSKI (O.S.)
          You're making a big mistake, sport.

             JIM                     CARL YANKOWSKI (O.S.)
Yeah, sorry, Carl. I am going    Don't you dare fucking hang
to have to call you back. I      up on me. Don't hang--
am stepping into a meeting.

Clicks. Hangs up.

Jim stands in front of the Verizon board, his hands on John's
shoulder. John brushes him off. A dozen board members (some
of who we recognize from Bell Atlantic) sit around the
boardroom table.

                    JIM
          How's everybody doing?

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Jim, I know this isn't exactly what
          you want to hear, but this board
          feels that in order to avoid
          further disruptions, it's best we
          end our relationship with
          BlackBerry.

                    JIM
          John, we're just getting started.

                      JOHN WOODMAN
          Jim, I'm   serious. We're wiling to
          take the   hit on users and let them
          go crash   somebody else's fucking
          network.   It's over.
                                                        85.


                    JIM
          No. What's "over" is your bullshit
          limit of 500,000 users. We
          quadrupled it.

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Okay, Jim...

                    JIM
          Our engineers reprogrammed your
          towers. As of right now, Verizon is
          capable of carrying 2 million
          BlackBerrys at the same time. And
          we've already sold half of those.

                      JOHN WOODMAN
          Bullshit.

Jim holds the look. John realizes this is not a joke.

                      JIM
          Try me.

The board share looks with John, is he serious?


HOW'D YA DO IT? MONTAGE BEGINS


INT. MIDWAY DINER, WATERLOO - DAY

Jim reads the headline "RIM STOCK ROCKETS 400%" in the Globe
and Mail. Looks up to see Carl Yankowski walk in, looking
uneasy. Jim waves him over to take a seat.


INT. ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Charles Purdy rules the roost as the staff all busy
themselves silently with the work of the day.

Everyone wears name tags.

Including Doug, who sits at his desk silently typing code.


INT. BOARDROOM, VERIZON HQ, NEW YORK - DAY

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          How'd you do it, Mike?

Mike sits at the boardroom table. He just stares dead ahead,
lost in the question.
                                                        86.


TITLE CARD: 2007


INT. EXECUTIVE BOARDROOM, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike (hair slicked back, an air of confidence, power-suit)
sits at the head of a large table in the centre of an elegant
boardroom. Around him are the SENIOR BOARD OF DIRECTORS of
RIM. The only other person we recognize is Charles Purdy.

JACK MANISHEN (41, Head of Marketing) presents next quarter's
sales projections on a PowerPoint slide.

                    JACK MANISHEN
          We're number one in handset sales,
          subscriptions, customer retention,
          attracting new smartphone users,
          and brand recognition. We control
          30% of the North American market
          and with the upcoming release of
          the BlackBerry Bold we're on track
          to control 50% of the global
          market...

Mike gets a BBM:

Doug: you gotta get down here!

Ignores it --

                    JACK MANISHEN (CONT'D)
          Now our numbers are a bit below
          estimates right now, but we're
          expecting a nice bump when the 8310
          comes out in March.

                    CHARLES PURDY
          Now's probably a good time to talk
          about moving some of the assembly
          and construction to China.

                    MIKE
          No. No. Take people off of Onyx. If
          you need more bodies, hire more
          people. We're not moving to fucking
          China...

                     CHARLES PURDY
          Alright.

                     MIKE
          Alright.
                                                           87.


Something catches Mike's eye -- Doug, points to his phone at
him from behind the window to the boardroom.

                     MIKE (CONT'D)
          Oh my god.
             (To Doug)
          What!

Mike turns back to the boardroom.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Ah, that's a good spot to leave it
          for today guys. Thank you.

Mike stands up -- the room follows. Mike makes his way to the
door -- Jack Manishen cuts him off...

                    JACK MANISHEN
             (privately)
          Hey. Where's Jim?

                    MIKE
          Why?

                    JACK MANISHEN
          He's not answering my e-mails.

                     MIKE
          We're pitching the trackpad to
          Verizon on Friday. He's probably
          working on that.

Mike exits.

                    MIKE (O.S.) (CONT'D)
             (to Doug)
          I am in a meeting!


INT. RIM PRIVATE JET, 35,000 FEET - DAY

On a portable DVD player, Jim watches DON CHERRY and RON
MACLEAN of COACH'S CORNER on the plane.

                    DON CHERRY (ON TV)
          And I really believe that uh,
          Balsillie, is that how you say it?
          Something like that. You know, he
          was in there and says "I've heard
          guys screw up my name but worse
          than you". Anyhow, he's a patriot.
                    (MORE)
                                                        88.

                    DON CHERRY (ON TV) (CONT'D)
          He really does-- He's a hockey guy
          that really wants-- there's no
          making money that doesn't -- He's a
          hockey guy. Plays hockey, the whole
          deal. He really wants hockey here.

The plane phone RINGS. Austin picks it up before Jim can stop
him.

                    JIM
          No. Don't --

                     AUSTIN
          Hello..

                    JACK MANISHEN (O.S.)
          Hand the phone to Jim.

                    AUSTIN
          Uh. Who's this?

                    JACK MANISHEN (O.S.)
          It's Jack Manishen from Marketing.
          It's important.

Austin turns to Jim. Jim's eyes glued to the screen.

                    AUSTIN
          Jack. Manishen. Marketing?

                    JIM
          Mike can handle it.

Austin returns to the phone.

                     AUSTIN
          Maybe, you can speak to Mr.
          Lazaridis.

                    JACK MANISHEN
          He does not want me going to Mike
          with this... at least tell me where
          you're going.

Beat. Austin looks to Jim.

                    AUSTIN
          He wants to know where we are
          going..

                     JIM
          Hang up.

Austin hangs up the phone.
                                                        89.


INT. ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

It's dark. The lights are off and the projector screen is
down, like movie night. But we're not watching a movie.
Instead, the entire engineering department watches STEVE JOBS
on stage at MacWorld 2007.

We notice the engineering department has gone through another
makeover. All of the movie posters and comic books and
science fiction novels have been replaced with BlackBerry
advertisements.

Doug leads Mike into the room from the doorway -- they join
the crowd of engineers, all staring in wide eyed
wonder/terror.

                    JOBS (ON SCREEN)
          So. Three things. A widescreen iPod
          with touch controls. A
          revolutionary mobile phone and a
          breakthrough internet
          communications device.

Mike steals a look at Doug watching Jobs.

                    JOBS (ON SCREEN) (CONT'D)
          An iPod... a phone... and an
          internet communicator. An iPod. A
          phone. Are you getting it?! These
          are not three separate devices.
          This is one device. And we are
          calling it: iPhone.

Murmurs from the crowd.

                    JOBS (ON SCREEN) (CONT'D)
          Here's four smartphones, right?
          Motorola Q, BlackBerry, Palm Treo,
          Nokia E62... Usual suspects. They
          all have these keyboards that are
          there whether you need them or not
          to be there.

Mike looks at the same phone in his own hands.

                    JOBS (ON SCREEN) (CONT'D)
          And they all have these control
          buttons that are fixed in plastic.

Mike looks at the same phone in his own hands.

                    MIKE
          Why would anybody want a phone
          without a keyboard?
                                                          90.


                    JOBS (ON SCREEN)
          What we're going to do is get rid
          of all these buttons and just make
          a giant screen. A giant screen.

Awe from the crowd on screen and in the RIM office.

                    JOBS (CONT'D)
          When we start shipping in June and
          we'll be selling iPhones through
          our own stores and through Cingular
          stores. And it's my pleasure to
          introduce the CEO of Singular...
          Stan Sigman.

On screen Stan Sigman (55, CEO of AT&T) joins Steve Jobs on
stage, they shake hands.

                    MIKE
          Are you fucking kidding me?

                    DOUG
          What?

                    MIKE
          That's Stan Sigman. That's the CEO
          of AT&T.

                    STAN SIGMAN (ON SCREEN)
          You know, Steve and I first met
          about two years ago in New York
          City when he shared with me this
          vision that he had for this
          product.

                     MIKE
          This fucking guy.
             (to the room)
          Alright everybody. That's it. Fun
          times over. Back to work. I need a
          prototype of the Bold in my hand by
          Friday with a working trackpad.
          Thank you.

The lights come on. TV off. Everyone gets back to work.

                    DOUG
             (Pointing at the screen)
          That's crazy.

Doug's BlackBerry RINGS. Unknown Caller.

                    DOUG (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          Okay guys, let's get back to work.
                                                91.


Doug picks up his BlackBerry.

                       DOUG (CONT'D)
          Yello!

                    DARA FRANKEL (O.S.)
          Hi, is this Douglas?

                       DOUG
          Ah, yeah.

                    DARA FRANKEL (O.S.)
          I'm from the Securities and
          Exchange Commission and I was
          wondering if you could answer some
          questions for me?

                    DOUG
             (on the phone)
          Sure. Okay.

                    SCOTT (O.S.)
          Has anyone seen Allan?

                    DOUG
             (to the room)
          Check the NOC!

                    DARA FRANKEL
          Were you involved in the hiring of
          a Mr. Paul Stannos?

                    DOUG
          Sorry - from where?

                    DARA FRANKEL
          I'm from the SEC.

                    DOUG
          Is this a serious call?

                       DARA FRANKEL
          Yes.

                    DOUG
          Yeah. You called the wrong person.
          I can't help you with anything like
          that.

                    DARA FRANKEL
          Is this Douglas Fregin?

                       DOUG
          Yes ma'am.
                                                        92.


                    DARA FRANKEL
          Sorry. I have you listed here as
          one of the founders of the company.

Doug chuckles.

                    DOUG
          Yeah. I guess I am.

                       ENGINEER (O.S.)
          Doug.

                    DOUG
          I gotta go.

Doug hangs up and gets back to work.


INT. RECEPTION, NHL HQ, NEW YORK -       DAY

Jim paces in the reception area, nervous. Austin sits -- his
phone RINGS, he reaches for it --

                    AUSTIN
          Sorry.
             (checks the phone)
          Unknown number.

                       JIM
          No.

Austin puts it away.

DAWN (30s, power-suit.) Walks down the hall towards them.

                    DAWN
          Mr. Balsillie?

                       JIM
          Yes?

                    DAWN
          Welcome to the NHL.

Jim lights up. Extends a hand.

                    JIM
          Thanks for having me.

                    DAWN
          Nice to meet you, just this way.

                    JIM
          Okay, great.
                                                        93.


                    DAWN
          Right in here...


INT. BOARDROOM, NHL HQ, NEW YORK - DAY

Dawn leads Jim into the boardroom. Gary Bettman (55) greets
him with a handshake.

                    GARY
          Jim.

                    JIM
          Gary.

                    GARY
          Good to see you, thanks for taking
          the time.

                    JIM
          I've always got time for you, Gary.


INT. LIMOUSINE, NYC - DAY

Jim slams the door -- turns to Austin --

                    JIM
          Get me on the phone with Copps
          Coliseum.

                    AUSTIN
          Is that the Arena in Hamilton?

Jim's phone vibrates:

                    JIM
          Yeah. Tell them I want to buy it.

Mike (BBM): Just getting Bold prototype. Meet me out front.

Jim puts his phone away.

                    AUSTIN
          Okay. Um.
             (beat)
          I thought you were buying the
          Pittsburgh Penguins.

                     JIM
          Yes, I am.
             (to the driver)
          Let's go.
                                                          94.


INT. ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike shouts into the engineering room.

                    MIKE
          Okay. We gotta go!

                     DOUG
          One sec.

Doug and the guys huddle around his desk with a PROTOTYPE
BLACKBERRY BOLD plugged into his computer and a TERMINAL open
on the screen.

Scott is at the keyboard typing code as fast as he can.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          One sec!
             (to Scott)
          This good enough. Good enough.

                    SCOTT
          This is good enough?

Allans joins the guys with news.

                    ALLAN
          Apple is launching a marketplace
          for applications. It's going to be
          third party developers. Anyone.
          anyone --

                    DOUG
          Bad time. Bad time.

                    ALLAN
             (whispers to Pranay)
          Third party developers.

Scott passes the BOLD to doug who tests the trackpad. The
latency is brutal but it works.

                    SCOTT
          Here man. It's laggy as hell.

                    DOUG
          Good enough. Good enough. Good
          enough.

                     MIKE (O.S.)
          Now!

                    DOUG
          Yeah. We got it.
                                                        95.


Doug runs up to him, prototype in hand.

                    MIKE
          Doug. Come on.

                    ALLAN
             (to Pranay)
          They are launching an application
          market place.

                    DOUG
          So, the touchpad is working, I
          don't know if I would say that it's
          WORKING working.

Doug looks to Mike who is displeased.

BBM from Jim: Can't make it, go without me, you'll be fine
alone.

Mike looks around in distress.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          What?

                    MIKE
          Do you have a suit?


INT. LOBBY, VERIZON HQ, NEW YORK - DAY

Mike and Doug enter through revolving doors. Mike takes the
lead.


INT. BOARDROOM, VERIZON HQ, NEW YORK - DAY

Mike stands in front of ten VERIZON Executives. Doug sits
beside by the window, looking out at the skyline.

The room is silent as a prototype BlackBerry BOLD is passed
from one person to the next. No one seems that interested.

Behind Mike is a Powerpoint presentation on a large screen
that goes over the main features of the new BOLD...

                    MIKE
          ... 2.4 inches, 480 by 360 HVGA
          screen and to top it all off, the
          world's first trackpad which we
          believe will be the dominant
          navigational device for all mobile
          devices within the next two years.
                                                       96.


Beat.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          The BlackBerry Bold.

John Woodman (now in his 60s) breaks the silence.

                       JOHN WOODMAN
          That's it?

                       MIKE
          Uh huh.

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          That's what you've got for us? A
          trackpad?

Mike looks to Doug.

                    JOHN WOODMAN (CONT'D)
          You guys see Apple's thing?

The mere mention of Apple brings energy to the room.

Doug looks to Mike.

                    JOHN WOODMAN (CONT'D)
          Any reaction to that?

                    MIKE
          Plenty. Yeah. It's an over-
          designed, trying-to-do-too-much toy
          that will crash any network
          gullible enough to take it on. It
          is by every metric the exact
          opposite of everything we do at
          Research in Motion. Less data, no
          frills, reliable network. That's
          BlackBerry.

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Sexy slogan, Mike.

The room chuckles --

                    MIKE
          So. I guess, you want to kill your
          whole network cause that's what it
          will do.

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Yeah. The iPhone... they put a
          keyboard right on the screen?
                                                           97.


                    MIKE
          And it's the stupidest thing I've
          seen in my entire life. Ask anyone
          what they love most about their
          BlackBerry, and you will get the
          same answer every single time. The
          keyboard, the click. Okay?

                    DOUG
          ...Well...? Yeah. Yeah.

                    MIKE
          -- This entire market was born of
          our innovation and our idea to put
          "a keyboard on a phone", and we did
          that, we build that from a pile of
          garbage in 1996.

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Yeah. There's another slogan.

More chuckles. Mike's not happy.

                    JOHN WOODMAN (CONT'D)
          I dunno Mike. AT&T's got Apple. We
          were kind of hoping you'd come in
          here with an iPhone killer.

                    MIKE
          I don't need to kill it because
          it's going to commit suicide and
          it's gonna take down the whole
          fucking Cingular network with it.
          I'm giving you gold and I think you
          are all misunderstanding it.
             (beat)
          I created this entire product
          class. I created this entire
          fucking market. I created this
          entire product class. So listen to
          me. The trackpad is a mousepad on --
          built into the phone.

Doug waits for the sentence to finish, then looks at the
ground when he realizes Mike is out of gas.

                    JOHN WOODMAN
          Yeah.. and.. right. Okay. Yeah.
          Okay. Good enough. Uh thanks guys
          for coming down. Tell you what, let
          us - we'll talk about this
          internally and get back to you,
          okay? Tell Jim we missed him.
                                                         98.


Close on Mike. He's panicking.

                    DOUG
             (whispering to Mike)
          Let's go.

                    MIKE
          He's back, back in Waterloo working
          because. So, he promised me not to
          mention -- the other thing. We're
          not quite there yet but we're
          working on something pretty top
          secret.

Doug looks at Mike like "what the fuck are you doing?"

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Uh, he made me promise not to
          mention it. Prototype we're still a
          few weeks out. Uh, you know, I can
          demo it with our Bold prototype.

The Executives slowly perk back up -- Mike walks over to
Woodman -- picks up the prototype Bold -- holds it over his
head --

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          So. It's still a BlackBerry. Our
          BlackBerry. Except for where we
          have keys here... screen. The whole
          thing's a screen.

Doug's eyes are screaming.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          ... Uhh except.. Ours when you
          press it will get that...
             (Mike clicks the keys)
          That satisfying click.

Mike doubles down, just like he saw Steve Jobs do...

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          That BlackBerry click. Our
          trademark. Click. So. Screen.
          Keyboard. Phone. Screen. Keyboard.
          Phone. Screen. Keyboard. Phone.
             (to John)
          Are you getting it?


INT. LOBBY, VERIZON HQ, NEW YORK - DAY

Mike and Doug exit through revolving doors.
                                                        99.


                    DOUG
             (whispers)
          What was that?

                    MIKE
             (whispers)
          Stop.

                    DOUG
             (whispers)
          What was that?

                    MIKE
             (whispers)
          Shut up.

Mike and Doug exit the building.

                    DOUG
          Mike. Mike. What the fuck was that
          dude?

                    MIKE
          Where is this fucking limo?


INT. COPPS COLOSSEUM, HAMILTON - DAY

Jim comes out of the tunnel and is at one end of a
professional arena, currently set up to host a basketball
game. The BUILDING MANAGER guide Jim on a tour.

                    BUILDING MANAGER
          ...capacity maxes at seventeen
          thousand, but we could enhance it
          to nineteen without too much
          trouble.

                    JIM
          Alright. I want all this basketball
          shit gone. From now on, this place
          is a permanent rink.

                    BUILDING MANAGER
          We can't do that.

                    JIM
          Why?

                    BUILDING MANAGER
          We have active contracts with a
          dozen clients --
                                                       100.


                    JIM
          Cancel them.

                    BUILDING MANAGER
          Yeah but, there's going to be
          fines.

                    JIM
          I'll pay the fines.

Jim points to a booth in the arena.

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          And I want that to be my personal
          box.

                    BUILDING MANAGER
             (chuckles)
          That's not a box.

BBM from Mike: Sold Verizon 1 Million Units

                    BUILDING MANAGER (CONT'D)
          That's not a box.


INT. ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike is at a whiteboard drawing a schematic of his newly
invented BLACKBERRY STORM for a group of 40 engineers.

Everyone looks confused, Doug and Charles Purdy included.

                    MIKE
          No, no. Okay. So, it's a screen,
          but it needs a raised hinge or
          actuator as I wrote, between it and
          the body so the entire device
          clicks when you press on it.

A random STUDENT ENGINEER whispers something up.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Wait, what?

                    STUDENT ENGINEER
          I'm just wondering why we want to
          do that?

                    MIKE
          That. That. That is not the
          question you ask me here. WHY does
          not matter to you. Okay?
                    (MORE)
                                                          101.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Because I said so. Because that's
          what I sold, okay?

Beat.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Who. Who are you? By the way?

                       DOUG
          Easy Mike.

A BLACKBERRY RINGS in the crowd.

                    MIKE
          Oh come on guys. Please. Silent
          mode! When we're at the office --

Mike motions to Purdy.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
             (whispering)
          Charles?!

                    CHARLES PURDY
          Phones off!

The phone keeps ringing -- the crowd pinpoints the noise --
it's coming from Scott.

                    SCOTT
          Sorry. Sorry Mike. Sorry buddy.

Scott reaches into his pocket and silences his phone...

Mike stares at Scott, about to ream him out...

                    DOUG
          Okay. So, you know what? I think,
          all this is, is we are trying to do
          the old BlackBerry click while
          embracing the new iPhone screen.
          That's all --

                    MIKE
             (interrupts)
          No! No! No. We're not "embracing"
          anything to do with Apple. Guys.
          It's really not hard. Okay? We pay
          you a lot of money. This is really
          not hard. It's a keyboard, on a
          screen, on a keyboard. And I don't
          care what you think of it.

Charles Purdy silently ushers Mike out of the room.
                                                       102.


                    CHARLES PURDY
          Mike..

The crowd is silent. Doug looks down, biting his tongue.


INT. HALLWAY, ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

The team is off to work. Charles has finally got Mike to
himself in the doorway.

                    MIKE
          What the fuck is Doug talking
          about, embracing what Apple is
          doing? I don't understand.

                    CHARLES PURDY
          You come back from New York talking
          about a brand new phone. Prototype
          in a week? What are we doing here?

Doug appears at the door.

                    DOUG
          Can I talk to you?

                    MIKE
          It's a prototype Charles! I could
          build the fucking thing myself in
          one night if I had to.

                    CHARLES PURDY
          But we still gotta ship the god
          damn thing.

                    MIKE
          I said use the Onyx team.

                    CHARLES PURDY
          I did! On Curve.

Beat.

                    CHARLES PURDY (CONT'D)
          Alright, China. It's the only way
          this gets done. I'm sorry, China.

                    MIKE
          Yeah. Fuck it. Do it. China. China.
          Let's do it.

Doug pipes in.
                                                        103.


                    DOUG
          Wait. Wait. No. He doesn't mean
          that.

                    MIKE
          Hey. Hey. Don't speak for me.

                    DOUG
          Mike, what are you doing?

                    MIKE
          What am I doing? I'm trying to keep
          our biggest fucking customer. What
          the fuck are you doing?

                    DOUG
          Mike, I'm trying to help you.

                    MIKE
          You're not though. You're not.
          You're not helping me. This doesn't
          help me. If you could help me, we
          wouldn't be here. I don't need your
          fucking help anymore. Okay? You're
          fucking useless.

Doug's face falls.

                     DOUG
          Okay.

Doug turns and walks away from the guys.

Mike turns to Purdy --

                    MIKE
          Figure out China.

Mike and Charles watch as Doug leaves.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Figure out China. And I'll build
          the fucking thing myself.

Mike leaves. We hold on Charles as he watches him go,
wondering where the hell this monster came from...


INT. MIKE'S OFFICE, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike pulls out a bunch of old BlackBerries from his desk
drawers. Dozens of them. He starts taking them apart, working
solo on the prototype for BlackBerry Storm...
                                                       104.


RING.

Mike picks up his office line.

                    MIKE
          What?

                    DARA FRANKEL (O.S.)
          Is this Mike Lazaridis?

                    MIKE
          Who is this?

                    DARA FRANKEL (O.S.)
          My name is Dara Frankel, I'm from
          the SEC. Do you have a second?

                    MIKE
          Not really. Not right now. What is
          this about?

                    DARA FRANKEL (O.S.)
          I'm trying to track down some
          information on some stock options
          your company issued.

                    MIKE
          Well, that's not -- I wouldn't know
          anything about that. I think you
          want to talk to Jim.

                    DARA FRANKEL (O.S.)
          Okay. Would there be a good time to
          come in and talk about this?

                    MIKE
          No. I don't. No.

Mike hangs up.


INT. ATRIUM, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Jim waltzes into the building with a "what's next?" attitude.

Shelley stands up and gets his attention from behind the
reception desk.

                    JIM
          Okay! I'm here. I'm here. I'm here.
          I'm here.

She hands him a copy of FORBES with his photo on the cover.
                                                         105.


                    SHELLEY
          Jack Manishen says he needs to see
          you.

Jim thumbs through -- best day of his life.

                    JIM
          Okay. Yeah. Where is he?

                    SHELLEY
          Camped outside your office.

                    JIM
          Great.

Jim gets to his article -- sees that Carl Yankowski is
featured in a photo on the opposite page...

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          Shel, do me a favor: reach out to
          Carl Yankowski's office and let him
          know Jim Balsillie's got opening
          night tickets to the Hamilton
          Penguins for him. I know how much
          he loves hockey.


INT. HALLWAY, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Jim walks up to his office. Sure enough, Jack Manishen is
waiting outside, nervous. He stands immediately upon seeing
Jim.

                    JIM
          Alright. Alright. Relax. You got
          me.

                    AUSTIN
          That same woman from the SEC keeps
          calling. Can I give you her number?

                    JIM
          No.


INT. JIM'S OFFICE, RIM 2, WATERLOO -- DAY

Jim looks down at IPHONE SALES PROJECTIONS in his hands while
Jack presents slides. There's an image of an iPhone next to
BlackBerry and the rest of the competition...

                    JACK MANISHEN
          Okay.. So... first Quarter...
                                                     106.


Changes the slide. iPhone grows.

                    JACK MANISHEN (CONT'D)
          ...second quarter...

Changes the slide. iPhone grows.

                    JACK MANISHEN (CONT'D)
          ...third quarter...fourth quarter.

Changes slide.

                    JACK MANISHEN (CONT'D)
          And this is us.

                    JIM
          Whose numbers are these?

                    JACK MANISHEN
          Apple's internal projections. They
          released the numbers on Friday.

                    JIM
          Five hundred dollars? Fully
          subsidized? This is the most
          expensive phone in the world.

                    JACK MANISHEN
          It has the highest consumer
          interest of any product in history.
          We are going to go from "number one
          phone in the world" to "that phone
          that people had before they bought
          an iPhone".

Beat. Jim looks at the slide -- shakes his head --

                    JIM
          It's gonna be fine. Mike will
          figure it out.

BANG BANG BANG -- Someone at the door.

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          What?

Jim gets up -- opens the door.

                    MIKE
          Um. Why. Why is the SEC looking at
          us?

Jim closes the door to only a crack.
                                                        107.


                    JIM
          They called you?

                    MIKE
          Yes. Something about stock options.

                    JIM
          I'm sure it's nothing.

                    MIKE
          It's nothing?

                    JIM
          Yeah. What's with this Apple thing?

                    MIKE
          What. What about it?

                    JIM
          Are we worried?

                       MIKE
          No.

                       JIM
          Okay, why?

                    MIKE
          Because, one of them uses as much
          data as five thousand BlackBerries.
          Because it has no keyboard. Because
          the thing is a joke.

                    JIM
          So why are people telling me that
          they're about to kill us?

                    MIKE
          `Cause they're idiots.

Mike leaves...

...Jim watches him go for a beat -- shuts the door...

...returns to his desk -- sees the FORBES spread open. Under
Yankowski's picture he sees the familiar face of Steve Jobs'
pal, STAN SIGMAN.

Jim hits his intercom button --

                    JIM
          Get me a meeting with Stan Sigman
          at AT&T.
                                                       108.


Beat.

                    JACK MANISHEN
          What are you doing?

Jim's mind is racing. He's forming a plan.

                    AUSTIN (O.S.)
          So the soonest I can get is next
          month, his office says he's leaving
          for vacation today.

Jim hits the button.

                     JIM
          Tell them I'm coming to Atlanta.
          Right now.

Jim gets up and starts running.


EXT. RIM PRIVATE JET, WATERLOO AIRPORT - DAY

Jim runs up the stairs into the jet -- yells to the cockpit.

                    JIM
          Let's go! Let's go!

Jim turns behind him to Austin, who is taking up the rear.

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          Tell them we'll be there in an
          hour.

Austin hands the BlackBerry to Jim.

                    AUSTIN
          It's the NHL.

Jim puts on his smiling face.

                    JIM
             (on phone)
          Gary! How are ya?

                    GARY BETTMAN (O.S.)
          Good. We're ready to go over here.
          How soon can you get to New York?

                    JIM
          Great! Anytime tomorrow.

                    GARY BETTMAN (O.S.)
          How about today?
                                                       109.


                    JIM
          Um. That might be a little tight
          for me.

                    GARY BETTMAN (O.S.)
          I've got the board here now and I
          don't know when they're all going
          to be together again. If you want
          to wait, up to you. It's your deal.

                    JIM
          Yeah. No. That works Gary. Yep.
          I'll be there.

                    GARY BETTMAN (O.S.)
          Looking forward to it.

                    JIM
          Okay. Alright. Bye.

Hangs up -- takes a breath --

                    JIM (CONT'D)
             (yelling behind him)
          Change of plans. We're going to
          JFK.

                    PILOT
          We are dialed in --

Jim runs back to the cockpit --

                    JIM
          Listen to me you mouthy fuck, if I
          say we are going to JFK, we are
          going to JFK. You understand?

                    AUSTIN
          So we're, we're not meeting with
          Sigman then?

                    JIM
          ...I'm doing it all.

Jim stays standing with one arm on the wall for balance as
the plane taxis down the runway, fire in his eyes.


EXT. PARKING LOT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

A maintenance worker takes down Doug's parking sign.

Just then multiple black SUVs pull up to RIM.
                                                       110.


DARA FRANKEL (40s, air of power) and her team of SEC AGENTS
enter the building.


INT. MIKE'S OFFICE, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Sparks fly.

Mike is hunched over his desk with a soldering iron, molding
parts of old BlackBerries together.

                      MIKE
          Fuck!

He singes his finger.

                    CHARLES PURDY
          Where's Jim?

Mike looks up to see Charles standing over his desk.

                    MIKE
          I have no idea.

                    CHARLES PURDY
          C'mon, we gotta get you outta here.

                      MIKE
          Why?

                    CHARLES PURDY
          SEC is raiding us.

Mike stands up.

                    MIKE
          Wait, what?

                    CHARLES PURDY
          Gimme your phone.

Mike looks down at his desk -- he has eight BlackBerrys.

                    CHARLES PURDY (CONT'D)
          Where's you god damn phone?

KNOCK

                    DARA FRANKEL (O.S.)
          Michael Lazaridis?

Mike looks to Purdy
                                                          111.


                    MIKE
          Can you handle this?

Purdy shakes his head.

The door opens -- Dara walks in with a BIG SEC INVESTIGATOR --

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          Who are you?

                    DARA FRANKEL
          We spoke on the phone. Wanna come
          and answer some questions?

                    MIKE
          Sure. Sure.

Mike tries to follow Dara out, but she insists on following
him out.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          After me is it? Okay.


INT. HALLWAY, ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, RIM 2 - CONTINUOUS

Dara leads Mike outside to see half a dozen SEC OFFICERS
waiting in the hallway.

                    DARA FRANKEL
          Okay.

On Dara's command, they all pile into his office.

                    MIKE
          Okay what? What are they doing?
          They can't touch any of that stuff?

Mike looks across the hall to the Engineering Department --
his team stares at him through the glass, pain and pity in
their eyes, like seeing Dad get arrested.

Dara opens the door to a tiny office across the hall...


INT. TINY OFFICE, RIM 2, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

Mike sits at one end of a small table. Dara closes the door.

A moment later the door opens -- an SEC INVESTIGATOR walks in
holding one of Mike's BlackBerrys.

                    SEC INVESTIGATOR
          Passwords on everything.
                                                       112.


                     DARA FRANKEL
           What's the password Mike?

                     MIKE
           Am I required to give that to you?

                     DARA FRANKEL
           No. Are you hiding something?

Beat.

                     MIKE
           Should I not have a lawyer or
           something with me for this?

                     DARA FRANKEL
           Do you think you need a lawyer?

Mike swallows.


INT. RECEPTION, NHL HQ, NEW YORK - DAY

Jim paces nervously in the empty reception area. Something is
off.

Dawn emerges and calls on him.

                     DAWN
           Jim.

Finally.

Jim follows Dawn into the boardroom.


INT. BOARDROOM, NHL HQ, NEW YORK - CONTINUOUS

It's packed. Gary Bettman, Dawn, and the entire NHL front
office fill seats around the boardroom table. They turn as he
walks in.

                     JIM
           Gary. What's going on? You got me.
           You got me waiting out here.

Awkward silence.

                     DAWN
           Jim, look, we're not going to waste
           your time, okay? It's not going to
           happen with you and the Penguins.
                                                       113.


                    JIM
          What?

                    DAWN
          We held a vote with the other
          owners and unfortunately it went
          against you 26-0.

                    JIM
          Hold on a sec. Hold on. Hold on. I
          thought we had a deal. When did the
          other owners even -- I'm sorry,
          what changed here, man?

                    DAWN
          The owners did not find you to be
          of "good character and integrity".

                    JIM
          I don't know what the hell that
          means. Gary, what the fuck is this?

                    GARY BETTMAN
          You know, it's funny. It's one
          thing to have a secret plan to fuck
          over the NHL and move a team to
          Canada. It's another thing to brag
          to your rich friends before you
          actually do it.

It takes a moment, but Jim understands what is happening.

                    JIM
          ... You guys are so fucking stupid.
          You know what? Maybe I'll buy this
          whole fucking league, huh? How
          about that?

                    GARY BETTMAN
          Dawn. Can we see that Mr. Bald-
          Silly gets safely back to Canada?

                    JIM
          Oh, fuck all you people! Fuck you!
          Get ready for a hostile takeover of
          this entire fucking league, okay?
          YOU FUCK. You think I won't fucking
          do it? I'm from Waterloo, where the
          vampires hang out!!!

Jim walks out and SLAMS the door.
                                                       114.


INT. RIM PRIVATE JET, JFK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, NY - DAY

Jim rushes on...

                    JIM
          Go! Go! Go! Go!

                    PILOT
          We'll never make it.

                    JIM
          I said LET's GO.
             (to Austin)
          Delay Sigman.

                    AUSTIN
          I called. They said he's already
          left for vacation.

                      JIM
          Where?

                    AUSTIN
          They just said he's going to the
          airport.

The plane starts to move.

                    JIM
          Great. So are we.


INT. TINY OFFICE, RIM 2, WATERLOO - EVENING

Mike is starting to get nervous as contract after contract is
put in front of him...

                    DARA FRANKEL
          And is this your signature?

Mike eyes it.

                      MIKE
          Yeah.

                      DARA FRANKEL
          And this?

                     MIKE
          I don't know what you're looking
          for. These are standard employment
          contracts.
                                                       115.


                    DARA FRANKEL
          I'm just wondering how you
          convinced all these engineers from
          around the world to come all the
          way to Canada. Doesn't make sense.

                    MIKE
          It's because they get to work on
          the best phone in the world.

                    DARA FRANKEL
          Mike, each of these contracts
          offers back-dated stock options.
          You were illegally pricing your own
          shares so you could hire engineers
          with money you didn't have.

Mike looks at the contract in his hand --

                    DARA FRANKEL (CONT'D)
          Do you know what the sentence is
          for multi-million dollar stock
          fraud?

                    MIKE
          Okay. I swear I had no idea about
          any of what you just said.

                    DARA FRANKEL
          Do you expect me to believe that?
          You're CEO.

Beat. Mike looks down at one of the employment contracts.
Sees Jim's name.

                    MIKE
          Co-CEO.


EXT. RUNWAY, HARTSFIELD-JACKSON INTERNATIONAL, ATLANTA - DAY

Jim runs down the stairs of his just-landed plane, holding
his BlackBerry to his ear as he runs towards the terminal...

                     STAN SIGMAN (O.S.)
          Tell me why this can't wait another
          few weeks?

                    JIM
          I'm telling you Stan. I'm headed
          for the terminal right now.

                    STAN SIGMAN (O.S.)
          What?
                                                       116.


                    JIM
          I'm at Gate 7. Uh, where are ya?

                    STAN SIGMAN (O.S.)
          Are you runnin'?

                    JIM
          No. Stan. No. I'm good. I'm telling
          ya. Just give me the gate.

                    STAN SIGMAN (O.S.)
          I'm getting on a plane here, Jim.


INT. TERMINAL, HARTSFIELD-JACKSON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT,
ATLANTA - CONTINUOUS

Hundreds of people surround him. It's loud and hectic. Jim
searches the terminal for Stan Sigman.

                    JIM
          No. Okay. Listen. Stan. Alright.
          Here's the headline: half a million
          BlackBerries for AT&T, for zero
          dollars.

                    STAN SIGMAN (O.S.)
          What's the catch?

Jim tears past people. Some are distracted by their phones
and collide with him.

                    JIM
          No! No catch. They're yours. IF
          you're willing to release them at a
          discount one month before the
          iPhone.

Stan groans.

Jim stops running -- pleads his case --

                    JIM (CONT'D)
          Stan, come on, you owe me. You've
          sold a lot of minutes because of
          us.

                    STAN SIGMAN (O.S.)
          Yeah. But you know what the problem
          with selling minutes is?

                     JIM
          ...What?
                                                       117.


                    STAN SIGMAN (O.S.)
          There's only one minute in a
          minute.

Stan hangs up.

Jim lowers the phone like "what the fuck does that mean?"

Jim takes a beat, trying to decode that sentence. He's
surrounded by travelers rushing back and forth. He's the only
one standing still.

He looks back down at his phone -- finds MIKE in his quick-
dial -- calls...

                       MIKE (O.S.)
          Hey.

                    JIM
          Okay. Mike. Listen to me, I think
          we got a big problem here. I know
          what Apple's doing.

                    MIKE (O.S.)
             (whispering)
          Yeah. We shouldn't talk on the
          phone.

                       JIM
          Why?


INT. RIM 2, STORAGE CLOSET - WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

                       MIKE
                (whispering)
          Um.

                       JIM (O.S.)
          WHY?

                    MIKE
          We're in trouble with the SEC but,
          get back as soon as you can.


INT. TERMINAL, HARTSFIELD-JACKSON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT,
ATLANTA - CONTINUOUS

                    MIKE (O.S.)
          I have a way to get us out of this.
                                                       118.


EXT. RUNWAY, HARTSFIELD-JACKSON INTERNATIONAL, ATLANTA - DAY

Jim runs up the stairs of the plane.


EXT. PARKING LOT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - NIGHT

Jim FOBS himself into RIM.


INT. ATRIUM, RIM 2, WA TERLOO - CONTINUOUS

Jim opens the front door -- the place is empty, quiet and
eerie.

Jim crosses the atrium and heads to the stairs.


INT. JIM'S OFFICE, RIM 2 - CONTINUOUS

Mike sits at Jim's desk, looking over Jack Manishen's iPhone
projections -- the wall of masks behind him.

Jim storms in.

                    JIM
          Okay, so listen. AT&T knows exactly
          what they're doing. They WANTED
          Apple to build a data-guzzling
          monster because that's where
          they're going to move the market.
          They're not selling minutes
          anymore, Mike. They're selling
          DATA.

Mike picks up his BlackBerry -- dials...

                     MIKE
             (on the phone)
          He's here.

Jim feels a chill. Mike hangs up.

                    JIM
          Who's that?

                    MIKE
          They're waiting for you next door.

Beat.

                    JIM
          Who? What did you do?
                                                       119.


                    MIKE
          I made a deal. The SEC gets you,
          your board seat, and our full
          cooperation in the criminal
          investigation, and for that they'll
          leave us alone.

Beat.

                    MIKE (CONT'D)
          And they want 83 million dollars.

Jim feels the walls close in, just like when Woodman told him
"some nerds took you for a ride" back in 1996. His back is
against the wall. It's done. It's over. No more rope.

And then he can't help but smile to himself, as if someone
just whispered a great secret in his ear.

He looks at Mike.

                    JIM
          You said next door?

Jim turns -- walks out of his office -- opens the door in the
hallway -- steps inside.

Mike watches him leave...

...then goes back to work on his prototype.


TITLE CARD: 2008


INT. MIKE'S BMW, PARKING LOT, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

Mike pulls into his "LAZARIDIS" parking space. Jim's spot:
Gone. Doug's spot: Gone.


INT. ENGINEERING OFFICE, RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

New engineers populate the place. Gone are the familiar faces
of Doug, Pranay, Scott, Ethan and Allan.


INT. LOADING DOCK, RIM 2, WATERLOO - CONTINUOUS

Mike walks along the pathway of the loading dock.

Workers unload crate after crate from trucks into the loading
bay. Wooden boxes with Chinese shipping labels.
                                                        120.


Mike lands in the middle of the room, filled with BLACKBERRY
STORMS WRAPPED IN THEIR COMMERCIAL PACKAGING... He rips open
the plastic wrap.

...Mike picks one up...

...unwraps the box...

...pulls out the BlackBerry Storm...

...turns it on...

...the screen glitches for a moment, then reveals the
BlackBerry home-screen, a cramped stack of icons against a
"Verizon V" background...

...Mike opens the text app and we see the keyboard on the
screen on a keyboard. He touches the screen -- scrolls -- the
delay between touch and action is about 1/2 a second --

Suddenly we hear something...

...A quiet hissing...

...static...

...Mike recognizes the sound...

...looks around the room, searching for the source...

...looks back at the BlackBerry in his hand...

...that's it -- his phone is making the hiss.

Mike stares at it...

...puts it down on the crate in front of him...

...Reaches into the breast pocket of his jacket...

...Takes out his precision screwdriver set...

...Opens the BlackBerry...

The circuit board is a mess. Mike pokes around with his
screwdriver until he finds what he's looking for: A single
prong of metal rubbing against the speaker wire.

Mike lifts the wire off the prong. The static instantly
stops. He tucks the wire against the body of the phone --
closes the case, and screws it back together.

Mike puts the phone back into it's box -- closes it -- puts
it back into the crate...
                                                        121.


Beat.

Mike reaches for the next box -- opens it -- takes out the
phone -- unscrews the body -- fixes the speaker wire --
closes it -- puts it back in the box --

Mike reaches for another box -- opens it...

The camera tracks out to reveal the crates and crates of
unopened BlackBerry Storms being unloaded all around him as
he calmly tries to fix them one by one.

Text appears on screen:

Nearly every BlackBerry Storm was returned or replaced due to
manufacturing errors.

Verizon sued RIM for $500M to cover their losses.

Mike Lazaridis resigned from RIM on January 22, 2012.


EXT. LAKE - DAY

Rick Brock and Jim fish together.

Text appears on screen:

Jim Balsillie avoided any jail time for his role in the stock
manipulation.

His texts and e-mails remain encrypted on the BlackBerry
servers in Waterloo.


EXT. BACKYARD, DOUG'S HOUSE, WATERLOO - SUNSET

A backyard Movie Night. A projector shines on an outdoor
screen.

Doug, Allan, Scott, Pranay, Ethan, Steve and a few other
former RIM Engineers are gathered, the movie is starting.

Text appears on screen:

Doug sold his stock at the 2007 high. He is secretly one of
the richest men in the world.


INT. RIM 2, WATERLOO - DAY

An old photo of the original RIM group hangs on Doug's desk.

Text appears on screen:
                                                       122.


At its height, BlackBerry controlled 45% of the cellphone
market.

Today, it's 0%.

END.




Blackberry
Writers :   Matt Johnson  Matthew Miller  Jacquie McNish  Sean Silcoff
Genres :   Drama  Comedy
User Comments








