




                        BOOKWORM


                       Written by

                      Toby Harvard




EXT. SUBURBAN BACK YARD -- NIGHT

A crackly LP plays on a turntable somewhere. Items in a
tomboy's lair as CREDITS roll -- maps on the walls, stacks
and stacks of books, folk LP's, framed photos of New
Zealand's wilderness, a bonsai tree, well-loved toys...

MILDRED (11, red-cheeked, bespectacled) at the window, looks
through binoculars, into the backyard:

Where a chunk of raw beef glistens under a BEER-CRATE TRAP,
held up by a stick with a rope attached, held by Mildred.

                    MILDRED
          Come on... dinner is served. Come
          on, you little bugger...

She lowers the binoculars, glancing over to the TV.


ON THE TV SCREEN

A NEWS ANCHORWOMAN (20s) sits at a desk, a graphic of a BLACK
PANTHER behind her as she addresses camera --

                    ANCHORWOMAN (ON TV)
          The hunt is on for a mysterious
          black cat prowling the wilds of
          Canterbury. This time, the beast
          was seen by Brian Thomas, a
          Canterbury farmer. Sarah Bruce
          reports.

MILDRED'S POV -- through binoculars again -- as a DOMESTIC
BLACK CAT is spotted moving slowly against the fence. The
view whips to the TRAP, then back to the approaching cat.

ON TV -- The image CUTS to rapid-fire shots: a field -- sheep
-- a grassy hillside --

                    REPORTER (V.O.)
          Brian was fixing a fence when he
          saw the creature, a moment he says
          he'll never forget.

CUT to a FARMER (50s) interviewed on camera --

                    FARMER (ON TV)
          It just looked like a big black
          cat. Like a normal house cat, but
          really big, actually huge, just
          like a really extra-big black cat
          with big yellow eyes and big teeth.
          Big, sharp, kind of jagged teeth.
          My sheep are alright though.

MILDRED'S POV through the binoculars -- the cat creeps
towards her trap...
                                                            2.


                    ANCHORWOMAN (O.S.)
          The reward offered for video proof
          of the mysterious creature is now
          at 50,000 dollars.

Mildred carefully places the binoculars down, clasping both
hands on the rope.

From somewhere in the house, Mildred's mother calls out --

                    MOTHER (O.S.)
          Mildred! You want anything to eat?

Mildred acknowledges this, but her eyes are locked on the
cat, calling out in a strained shout --

                    MILDRED
          Mum, be quiet..!

                    MOTHER (O.S.)
          What!? Can't hear you!

The cat stops still, ears twitching...

                    MILDRED
              (whisper-shout)
          Can you make me some toast!?

Mildred's mother ZO (40) peers around the door, cigarette
clenched `twixt her teeth --

                    ZO
          Sure, love. I know how you like it.
          Razor-sharp triangles. No crust.

                    MILDRED
          That's right.

                    ZO
          One thing though, Mildred...

Mildred looks back at her, patience dwindling --

                    MILDRED
          What? I'm in the middle of
          something here...

                    ZO
          What are the magic words?

Mildred hurriedly steals a glance back at the cat --

                      MILDRED
          Please..?

                    ZO
          That's the magic word, singular.
          What are the magic words, plural?
                                                         3.


                    MILDRED
          Mum, can't you see I'm busy trying
          to catch Jonesie in an intricate
          home-made trap?

                    ZO
          And why in the name of buggery
          would you want to trap our poor
          sweet innocent cat?

                      MILDRED
          Practice.

                      ZO
          For?

                    MILDRED
          For the Panthera Pardus that's been
          haunting our wilderness of late.
          You may know him by his nom de
          plume, The Canterbury Panther?

                    ZO
          Panthera Pardus. Nom de plume. You
          sure do know a crapload of words,
          don't you, young lady?

                    MILDRED
          I'm a card-carrying bookworm. So
          yes, I sure do know a crapload of
          words.

                    ZO
          But do you know the magic words?
          Say them and I'll bugger off and
          make your bloody toast triangles.

                    MILDRED
              (sighs, resigned)
          I .. love .. you.

                      ZO
          Go on?

                    MILDRED
          ... with all .. my heart.

                    ZO
          There. Was that so difficult?

                    MILDRED
          Yes. It was, actually.

Zo rolls her eyes, and heads off downstairs.

Mildred returns her attention to the action outside. The cat
is now sniffing the meat under the crate. Mildred gets ready
to pull the rope...
                                                         4.


                      MILDRED (CONT'D)
            Come on... that's it...

Right then -- THE TV AND LIGHTS SHUT OFF. A POWERCUT,
throwing the room into pitch DARKNESS.

OUTSIDE -- the cat gets spooked, bounding off.

                      MILDRED (O.S.) (CONT'D)
            Oh, wonderful. Fan-bloody-tastic.
            That's just great.
                (calls out)
            Mum!? What happened? Mum?!

In the darkness -- drawers opened, rummaged through, and --

A FLASHLIGHT blinks on, held by Mildred. She heads towards
the doorway, path illuminated by the light's thin beam.


INT. CORRIDOR

Mildred steps out of her room, the light's beam sweeping --

                      MILDRED
            Mum!?

No reply.


INT. STAIRWAY

Mildred hurries down a corridor --

                      MILDRED
            Mum!? What are you doing?


INT. HALLWAY

Mildred steps into a cramped hallway, flashlight roaming --

                       MILDRED
            Mum, come on. This is not amusing.
            I am not amused! Let's be grownups,
            shall we?
                (then)
            I swear, if you sneak up on me
            again... I'll pee myself, and
            you'll have to clean it up.

The flashlight's beam finds -- In a DOORWAY AHEAD --

ZO'S BARE FEET, twitching, convulsing on the floor.

Mildred freezes, face falling in shock and fear.
                                                           5.


                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Mum..?

                                                HARD CUT TO:


INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR

Mildred sits outside an operating room. Foot tapping. Eyes
wide and scared.

A DOCTOR (40s) exits the room, taking a seat beside Mildred.

Mildred looks at them. Fearful, hopeful. The Doctor pauses,
choosing the right words. Then --

                    DOCTOR
          It's Mildred, isn't it?
              (Mildred nods)
          My darling, I have some good news
          and I have some bad news.

Mildred winces, truly scared, bracing herself...

                    DOCTOR (CONT'D)
          The bad news is... you're going to
          need a new toaster.
              (smiles)
          The good news is... you're not
          going to need a new mum.

Mildred just looks at The Doctor, puzzled, petrified.

                    DOCTOR (CONT'D)
          Your toaster exploded. An
          electrical malfunction of some
          kind. I'm not an electrician, so I
          can't really go into the specifics.
          You know the button you push down
          to begin the toasting process?

Mildred nods. The Doctor adjusts their glasses.

                    DOCTOR (CONT'D)
          That button was faulty, which
          caused your mum to get quite the
          shock, which caused her body to
          become like jelly, which caused her
          to fall backwards, which caused her
          to hit her head against the bench,
          which caused her to go into a coma.

                    MILDRED
              (stunned)
          A coma..?
                                                           6.


                    DOCTOR
          She's not dead. But she's not fully
          alive either. She's in a kind of
          dreamlike netherworld between life--

                    MILDRED
          I know what a coma is. Can you save
          her?

                    DOCTOR
          Now you listen to me carefully,
          Mildred. I'm not talking as doctor
          to child right now. No. This is
          Woman to Woman. Sister to sister.
          Soul to--

                    MILDRED
              (impatient)
          Can you save her? Yes or no.

                    DOCTOR
          Yes. We can, and we will. But she
          has something called a brain bleed.
          So we're going to keep her under
          for a at least a week until she
          stabilizes.

                    MILDRED
          A week? She's supposed to be taking
          me camping tomorrow. She finally
          took some time off work, she... she
          promised...

The Doctor shakes their head sadly. Mildred sighs.

                    DOCTOR
          My poor darling. I'm afraid camping
          will have to wait. But first things
          first... Where's your dad?

Mildred looks mortified. From somewhere, a DOORBELL CHIMES
"Somewhere Over The Rainbow" as we --

                                                     CUT TO:


INT. HALLWAY -- DAY

A middle-aged woman with very curly red hair, DOTTY, opens a
front door to reveal --

STRAWN WISE (40), Mildred's father, on the doorstep. He's an
illusionist with a dated look. Leather jacket, trilby,
eyeshadow, black fingernails, reptile-skin suitcase.

                    STRAWN
          Hi. I'm Strawn. Strawn Wise.
          Mildred's... biological father.
                                                            7.


                    DOTTY
          The magician.

                     STRAWN
          Illusionist.
              (beat)
          Magician sounds... cheap?

Silence. Dotty eyes Strawn up and down.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Can I come in?

                    DOTTY
          Can I see some I.D?

                       STRAWN
          I.D?

                    DOTTY
          It stands for Identification
          Document.

Strawn considers this, lips curling into a knowing smirk.

                    STRAWN
          I'd love to show you some I.D, but
          there's a problem. You see, you
          currently have my I.D.

                       DOTTY
          I have it?

                    STRAWN
          That's right.

                    DOTTY
          What do you mean, mate?

                    STRAWN
          You have my I.D.

                    DOTTY
          I do? Where?

Strawn reaches out towards her hair -- he yanks his hand away
fast, revealing his PASSPORT. Dotty looks at it, impressed --

                    DOTTY (CONT'D)
          I have to say. Normally I find
          magicians skin-crawlingly
          embarrassing, but you're actually
          half decent.

Dotty takes the passport, looking at the photo, satisfied.

                    DOTTY (CONT'D)
          Access granted. Shoes off!
                                                         8.


INT. HALLWAY

Strawn enters, setting his suitcase down, kicking his
platform boots off. Dotty looks to him, suddenly serious --

                    DOTTY
          Look, mate. Just so you know. I
          didn't hug the girl. Even though
          Lord knows she needs one.

                    STRAWN
          I'm sorry, what?

                    DOTTY
          Your daughter. I specifically
          didn't hug her.

                    STRAWN
          Why?

                    DOTTY
          I just... I've heard so many horror
          stories. You can't be too careful,
          with other peoples' kids, these
          days... Touching them. Even hugs
          are a no-go.

                    STRAWN
          I guess so.

                    DOTTY
          My cousin Geoffrey was a teacher at
          the local school here. One day he
          hugged a little girl who'd grazed
          her knee. Guess what?

                    STRAWN
          What?

                    DOTTY
          The girl's parents pressed charges.
          Old Geoffrey lost his job. He'll
          never teach again.

                    STRAWN
          That's awful.

                    DOTTY
          Yeah, he went downhill after that.
          Ended up putting both barrels of a
          shotgun in his gob.

                    STRAWN
          Jesus. I'm so sorry.

                    DOTTY
          It's alright. He didn't pull the
          trigger.
                                                            9.


                    STRAWN
          Oh. That's good.

                    DOTTY
          No it's not. He hung himself after
          that.

                    STRAWN
          Oh no. Oh, I am so, so sorry.

                    DOTTY
          It's okay. The rope broke.

Strawn cringes, awaiting more horror.

                     STRAWN
          Is he...

                    DOTTY
          Dead?
              (Strawn nods)
          No. He's very much alive.

                    STRAWN
          Okay. That's great.

                    DOTTY
          No it's not, mate. He's in jail for
          20 years.
              (whispered)
          They found his hard drive. And
          let's just say there's no smoke
          without fire.

Strawn shakes his head, depressed. Dotty claps her hands
together, forcing a smile.

                    DOTTY (CONT'D)
          Right, mate. I'm off. Take care of
          the girl. She's in there, glued to
          a book as always. I'm next door on
          the right if you need anything.

                    STRAWN
          Yeah. Thanks.

Dotty slips her flip-flops on, and leaves.

Strawn inhales sharply, steeling himself, heading into --


INT. LIVING ROOM

Strawn steps into the room, looking at Mildred, who's slumped
on the sofa, engrossed in a Willard Price book.
                                                        10.


                    STRAWN
          Mildred. It's me. Strawn. Your Dad.
          I just flew across the world to be
          with you, little lady.
              (silence)
          I'm sorry about your mom. But she's
          going to be okay. It's official.

Mildred looks up at last.

                    MILDRED
          A licensed medical professional has
          officially told you she's
          officially going to be okay? Is
          that what you mean by official?

                    STRAWN
          Well... no, what I mean is... you
          know, she's going to be okay.
          I'm sure she is.
              (unsure)
          I'm pretty sure.

Mildred raises an eyebrow... and returns to her book. Strawn
just stands there, thinking.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Hey. Want to see something amazing?

Mildred turns a page, ignoring him.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          I said, do you want to see
          something amazing?

Mildred sighs. She sets her book down on the sofa. She looks
up at Strawn, wearily.

                    MILDRED
          Does it take a long time?

                    STRAWN
          No.

                    MILDRED
          Fine. Show me something amazing.

Strawn steps towards Mildred, pulling a deck of cards from
his back pocket. He shuffles the cards, fanning them out.

He extends the cards, faces down, towards Mildred.

                    STRAWN
          Pick a card. Go on.

Mildred selects a card with the minimum enthusiasm possible.
                                                        11.


                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Look at it. Don't show it to me.

Mildred looks at the card. She nods.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Now, put it back.

Mildred returns the card to the deck. Strawn shuffles the
cards, theatrically. With great ceremony, he picks a card - 3
of Diamonds - showing it to Mildred with smug triumph.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Is this your card?

                    MILDRED
          No.

                    STRAWN
          What? For a second, it sounded like
          you said no.

                    MILDRED
          It sounded like I said no because I
          did, indeed, say no.

                    STRAWN
          No..?

                    MILDRED
          Yes. By which I mean no. As in: No,
          it's not my card.

Strawn looks confused. He shuffles the cards again. Mildred
watches, nonplussed, losing patience.

Strawn takes another card - Queen of Clubs - from the deck,
presenting it to Mildred with a satisfied grin.

                    STRAWN
          Okay. Is this your card?

                    MILDRED
          I'm afraid it's not.

                    STRAWN
          What?

                    MILDRED
          I'm afraid it's not... sir?

Strawn takes another card from the deck - Six of Diamonds -
and raises it to Mildred, confidence dwindling...

                    STRAWN
          Is this your card?
                                                           12.


                    MILDRED
          I can lie and say yes, if that
          helps? I understand if you're
          feeling... a little fragile...

Strawn picks another card, frustration simmering...

                    STRAWN
          This?

                    MILDRED
          No. I'm sorry.

                    STRAWN
          Jesus. This?

Strawn pulls another card, jaw clenched.

                    MILDRED
          Look, Mr. Wise, you just got off an
          eighteen-hour flight, and I'm sure
          you're--

                    STRAWN
          God damn it!

Strawn THROWS the deck of cards at the window -- they bounce
off, fluttering to the floor... and we now see --

A single CARD - Ace of Hearts - stuck to the OUTSIDE of the
window, as if by magic.

Strawn smiles, his frustration just an act after all.

He looks to Mildred, who regards the card on the window.

                     STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Now... kindly remove your jaw from
          the floor, and tell me. Is that
          your card?

Strawn smiles, expectantly. Mildred' brow furrows. Silence.

                    MILDRED
          Right. Before I get to whether that
          was or wasn't my card, let me get
          one thing straight.

                    STRAWN
          What's that?

                    MILDRED
          Am I right in assuming you snuck
          into the back garden to glue that
          card to the window, before
          scrambling back around to the front
          of the house to ring the doorbell?
                                                         13.


                    STRAWN
          What? No, it's... it's called
          magic. I used the power of magic.

                    MILDRED
              (ignoring that)
          Did you, or did you not?

Savage silence. Strawn's cheeks redden.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Come on, I won't be angry with you.
          I just want you to tell me the
          truth.

                    STRAWN
              (admonished)
          Fine. Yeah. I did.

                    MILDRED
          How did you get back there?

                    STRAWN
          I went round the alley at the end
          of the street. Then I had to climb
          over two garden fences.

                    MILDRED
          So... you trespassed on private
          property?

                    STRAWN
          I mean... I guess I did? I didn't
          really think of it that way, but...

                    MILDRED
          I'm struggling to comprehend why
          you'd think that was acceptable
          behavior. I can only assume the
          trespassing laws in America are
          considerably more relaxed than they
          are here.

Strawn looks to the card on the window, then back to Mildred.

                    STRAWN
          That is your card, though.
              (unsure)
          Right?

Strawn sags a little. Mildred looks at him, with pity.

                    MILDRED
          No.

                    STRAWN
          It is your card.
                                                          14.


                    MILDRED
          No, it's not.

                       STRAWN
          It is.

                    MILDRED
          You appear to have misheard me the
          previous two times, so I'll say it
          again: It. Is. Not. My. Card.

                    STRAWN
          Of course it is.

                    MILDRED
          Fine. I give up. It's my card.
          Spectacular magic trick. Bravo.
          Does that make you feel better?

                    STRAWN
          Are you being sarcastic?

Strawn looks confused. Painful ugly silence befalls them.

Mildred returns to her book. Strawn scratches his head,
defeated. Then, after some pause --

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          How about you show me your room?


INT. BEDROOM

The door opens. Mildred steps in, followed by Strawn, who
takes in the decor --

                    STRAWN
          I can't say I spend much time in
          eleven year-old girls' bedrooms,
          but this isn't what I expected.

                    MILDRED
          What did you expect? A pink
          dollhouse? Pictures of princesses
          and palaces and horsies?

                       STRAWN
          Basically.

                    MILDRED
          What was on your walls when you
          were eleven?

                    STRAWN
          A lot of David Copperfield posters.
                                                        15.


                    MILDRED
              (surprised)
          Wait. You like David Copperfield?

                    STRAWN
          Like? More like love.

                    MILDRED
          Same. I'm borderline obsessed, to
          tell the truth.

                    STRAWN
          David Copperfield was my life
          growing up.

                    MILDRED
              (warming)
          Okay, so we have something in
          common. This is a good start.

                    STRAWN
              (smiles)
          A really good start.

                    MILDRED
          What are the odds of us having the
          exact same favorite book?

Strawn frowns, confused.

                     STRAWN
          No, no. I'm talking about David
          Copperfield... the illusionist from
          the 1990s?

                    MILDRED
          Oh. I'm talking about David
          Copperfield, the Charles Dickens
          novel from the 1840s.

                    STRAWN
          Oh. I have no idea what that is.

Silence, as if the very air has been sucked out of the room.

                    MILDRED
          I guess we don't have anything in
          common, after all.

Strawn squirms. He looks around, noticing --

An area of the wall covered in news clippings, depicting the
mysterious PANTHER. A prominent headline: "REWARD FOR PANTHER
PROOF NOW $50,000".

He steps closer, taking in the deluge of information she's
compiled: photos, clippings, maps with triangulated red pins.
                                                        16.


                    STRAWN
          What is this?

                     MILDRED
          The Canterbury Panther. Something
          of an obsession lately. There have
          been sightings for decades, but
          nobody's ever caught it on camera.
          They're offering fifty thousand for
          actual video proof of its
          existence.

Strawn nods, impressed.

                    STRAWN
          I don't really understand New
          Zealand money. Is that a lot of
          money?

                    MILDRED
          Yes. It's a lot of money. Money mum
          and I could really use right now.
              (sighs)
          She was supposed to take me camping
          tomorrow. I had it all worked out.
          I've gone through all historical
          data, studied the weather patterns
          and the terrain, and calculated the
          most likely location for an
          appearance from the mysterious
          beast.

Mildred looks gloomy. Her finger traces an area of desolate
wilderness on the map.

                     MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Oh well.

Strawn thinks. He sees the real sadness, fear and
disappointment in Mildred's eyes. He speaks up --

                    STRAWN
          I mean... I could take you, maybe?

                     MILDRED
          Really?

                    STRAWN
          Sure. It might your mind off
          everything happening with your mom.
          Not that I know the first thing
          about camping. I've never been. But
          maybe we could go, just quickly..?

                    MILDRED
              (brightening)
          Are you sure?
                                                           17.


Strawn notices more NEWS CLIPPINGS, about missing campers who
have vanished in the NZ wilderness. Newspaper headlines:

"HIKER IN HORROR FALL FROM CLIFF", "CAMPERS WASHED AWAY IN
FLOOD", "VANISHED: 700 MISSING IN NZ WILD THIS YEAR".

He suddenly looks scared, backtracking...

                    STRAWN
          You know... now that I think about
          it, I don't know if it's such a
          great idea.

Mildred looks at him, intense.

                    MILDRED
          We leave at first light.

Strawn looks anxious.

                                               CUT TO BLACK:


EXT. REMOTE BUS STOP -- DAWN

A bus pulls up at a desolate stop. The door hisses open.
Strawn and Mildred, carrying large back-packs, step off.

The bus door shudders closed. It drives off, kicking up dust.

Strawn looks down at Mildred, unsure. But she nods sagely.

                    MILDRED
          Stick with me, you'll be fine.

She sets out across the road, determined. Strawn calls out --

                    STRAWN
          You know where we're going, right?

No answer. Strawn hurries across the road, following her into


EXT. HIKING TRAIL

Mildred, map in hand, marches ahead.

Strawn lags behind, struggling under the weight of his
backpack. Suddenly, a woman's VOICE calls from somewhere --

                    VOICE (O.S.)
          Hey! I know you!

Strawn and Mildred stop, turning to see a smiling HIKER (20s)
approaching. She wears an old-style fisherman's hat and spiky-
soled boots. This is ANNE.
                                                        18.


                    ANNE
          I know you!

                     MILDRED
          Who, me?

                    ANNE
              (to Strawn)
          No, you. You're Strawn Wise. The
          magician.

Strawn smiles, trying to hide the thrill of being recognized.

                    STRAWN
          Illusionist. But yes.

Anne moves closer - boundaries schmoundaries - arriving at
uncomfortable proximity to Strawn.

                    ANNE
          I just knew it was you. And who's
          this cute little nipper?

                    STRAWN
          This is my biological daughter,
          Mildred.

                    ANNE
          Biological daughter, is she?
              (to Mildred)
          Hi there Mildred. I'm Anne.

                    MILDRED
          You look like an Anne. That name
          suits you. You have a perfect name-
          to-face correspondence.

Anne smiles faintly, confused. The three of them stand there,
in awkward silence. Strawn and Mildred edge away from Anne.

But Anne steps forward, maintaining proximity.

                    ANNE
          I used to watch your show when it
          was on the telly.

                    STRAWN
          Oh, thanks. Thank you. Really, that
          means a lot.

                    ANNE
          I used to watch it after my night
          shift. It was on at 4am.

                    MILDRED
              (interjecting)
          Real prime-time stuff, then.
                                                           19.


                    ANNE
          It's such a shame we don't get it
          here anymore.

                     STRAWN
              (hurt)
          Nobody gets it anymore.

                    ANNE
          What?

                    STRAWN
          It's no longer running, here or
          anywhere else. It was cancelled.
          The network cancelled it. Halfway
          through season one, actually. So...
          I don't have a show any more.

                    ANNE
          I guess that other guy sort of
          hijacked the spotlight, a little
          bit? Is that fair to say?

Strawn looks embarrassed. He glances at Mildred, who's
studying her map.

                    STRAWN
          Who, David?

                    ANNE
          Yeah. Never liked him, myself. Up
          his own arse, from the looks of it.

                    STRAWN
          Thanks. That's kind of you to say,
          in a strange way.

Mildred yawns.

                    ANNE
          Can you still levitate?

                    STRAWN
          I certainly can.

                    ANNE
          What are you waiting for? Go on.

                    STRAWN
          What? Now? Here?

                    ANNE
          Yeah, go on Strawn. Levitate for an
          old fan.

Mildred folds her map up, pocketing it. She looks at her
watch, then at Strawn, patience dwindling.
                                                        20.


                    MILDRED
              (to Strawn)
          Is levitation a lengthy process?
          I'm asking because we've got a lot
          of ground to cover today.

                    STRAWN
              (ignoring her)
          Okay. Here we go...

Something seems to shift within Strawn -- some new persona
summoned, a surge of cocksure assurance...

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          I feel the power, specifically in
          my feet. I'm talking about the
          power of levitation. Specifically.

Strawn closes his eyes, face solemn, concentrating. Mildred
looks at him, skeptical. Anne looks excited. Then --

Strawn's body begins to rise slightly. One of his feet does,
indeed, appear to be lifting off of the ground.

                     ANNE
              (thrilled)
          Holy crap..! Whoa. Is this actually
          happening?

Strawn, eyes still closed, face clenched in determination,
seems to rise slightly higher.

                    ANNE (CONT'D)
          He's actually bloody levitating!

Mildred looks at Strawn's feet, then to Anne --

                    MILDRED
          No, he's not.

                    ANNE
          What do you mean?

                    MILDRED
          He's put all his weight on his back
          foot, and he's lifting his front
          foot off the ground, thus creating
          the illusion of levitation from
          your vantage point.

Anne walks around to Strawn's side, crouching down, leaning
close to inspect the position of his feet.

                    ANNE
          Oh yeah. You're right.

Strawn opens his eyes and stops "levitating". His showman's
swagger crumbles. He looks at Anne with sheepish deflation.
                                                        21.


She looks back at him with disappointment and resentment.

                    ANNE (CONT'D)
          Cheers, Strawn. Cheers for single-
          handedly destroying my belief in
          the power of magic. Much
          appreciated.

                    STRAWN
          Do you... want an autograph?

Anne looks utterly repulsed, but then relents.

                    ANNE
          Yeah, go on.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. HIKING TRAIL

Mildred and Strawn trudge along a weathered path between
large overgrown bramble bushes. Mildred looks up at Strawn,
who looks vaguely upset.

                    MILDRED
          Something on your mind?

                    STRAWN
          No.

They walk on. Strawn thinks.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Okay, yeah. There actually is
          something on my mind.

                    MILDRED
          I thought there might be something
          on your mind. It's why I asked if
          there was something on your mind.

                    STRAWN
          You didn't have to, you know...
          shatter the illusion back there.

                    MILDRED
          You were conning her with fake
          magic. It was painful to watch.

                    STRAWN
          You're a child, so maybe you can't
          understand this, but people need
          magic. It helps them cope.
                                                        22.


                    MILDRED
          Hate to break it to you, but
          putting all your weight on one foot
          while raising the other foot
          slightly off the ground isn't
          helping anyone.

Strawn tries to think of a comeback.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          You'll have to pardon my bluntness.
          I'm what's commonly referred to as
          a "brutal realist".

                    STRAWN
          A brutal realist who actually
          believes there's a real giant
          panther out here.

                    MILDRED
          Panthers exist. Levitation doesn't.
          That's the long and short of it,
          I'm afraid.

Stalemate. They hike on in silence.


EXT. HILLSIDE

Mildred marches up a steep hill. Strawn lags behind, winded.
She turns, calling to him --

                    MILDRED
          You alright there?

Strawn doubles over, gasping for air.

                    STRAWN
          I just need to rest for a while.

He staggers to a rock, sitting, sighing. Mildred approaches.

                    MILDRED
          When you're out of breath, the key
          is to breathe.

                    STRAWN
          Thanks. I had no idea.

                    MILDRED
          In through the nose, out through
          the mouth. There you go.

                    STRAWN
              (winded)
          Sorry. It's been a while since I
          walked this much.
                    (MORE)
                                                           23.
                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Back at home, I usually get around
          on an electric scooter. It's gold.
          The wheels light up. I'm sorry.

                    MILDRED
          That's quite alright. But I'm going
          to impose a five-minute cap on our
          breaks, going forward. We've got a
          lot of terrain to cover today.

Strawn takes a swig of water from his bottle. Mildred looks
at the map, then at the sky, ruminating...

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          We've got approximately four hours
          til sundown. That ridiculous
          "levitation" business cost us time.

Strawn looks self-conscious.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          I'm not having a go at you.
          You weren't to know. But let's not
          make a habit of levitating for
          every Tom, Dick and Harry we
          stumble across.

Strawn doesn't know how to respond.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Right, sounds like your respiration
          is more or less regulated. Let's
          get a move on, shall we? As I said,
          we have a lot of ground to cover
          today, much of it quite hilly.

Mildred sets off again, up the hill. Strawn gets up, deeply
regretting this whole enterprise.


EXT. VALLEY

As if from a hidden POV, through branches and shrubbery:

From afar, Strawn and Mildred make their way through a
verdant valley, like tiny ants.


CLOSER

They trudge along. Mildred is deep in a lecture.

                    STRAWN
          Are there toilets here? You know,
          the portable kind?
                                                          24.


                     MILDRED
          No, Strawn. There are no toilets
          here.
              (then)
          Wee-wees are a relatively simple
          affair. But if you need what the
          Germans call a Scheisser, I do ask
          that you dig a hole.

                    STRAWN
          Okay.

                    MILDRED
          It's a delicate ecosystem out here,
          and human feces can really throw
          things off balance for the flora
          and fauna in the area.

She admires the terrain, with a flicker of sadness.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          This is one of the last places on
          Earth our species hasn't crapped
          all over. I'd like to keep it that
          way.

                                                DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. HILLTOP

Strawn and Mildred sit on the grass overlooking the valley
below, eating sandwiches wrapped in tinfoil.

                    STRAWN
          Peanut butter and jelly. What do
          you think? Old Strawn's got some
          sandwich-making skills?

                    MILDRED
          Must be an American delicacy. Can't
          say I'm a fan, myself. But calories
          are calories, and they're in short
          supply out here.

Strawn looks at her strangely.

                    STRAWN
          You know, you don't talk like a...

                    MILDRED
          Like a normal child?

                    STRAWN
          I wasn't going to put it that way,
          exactly... but yeah.

Mildred raises an eyebrow, looking out at the vista beyond.
                                                        25.


                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          My point is: you don't have to
          dress everything up to sound more
          sophisticated than you are.

                    MILDRED
          Says the magician who insists on
          being called an illusionist.

Strawn tries to think of a comeback. He can't.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Cheer up. We'll be home soon. You
          can bugger off back to America, and
          be free from your "biological
          daughter" and her insufferable
          verbal tics for another half-
          decade.

Strawn looks deeply hurt.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Right. Let's move.

She gets up, heading out. Strawn watches, calling to her --

                    STRAWN
          Do you even know where we're going?


EXT. HILLSIDE

They walk on. Strawn thinks a moment, debating whether or not
to ask... but does it anyway --

                    STRAWN
          How are you finding school?
              (delicately)
          Are you... having a hard time
          there?

                    MILDRED
              (sharp)
          Why would I be having a hard time
          there, Strawn?

                    STRAWN
          No, no, I didn't mean any--

                    MILDRED
          If you must know, I'm top of my
          class. Straight A's all the way.
          I'm captain of the netball team,
          and I've got so many trophies our
          mantelpiece literally collapsed
          under the weight. And believe it or
          not, I was officially voted Most
          Popular Girl In School last winter.
                                                          26.


Strawn's eyes widen slightly, impressed, relieved.

                     STRAWN
          Wow.

                     MILDRED
          My boyfriend, Clarence Hargreaves,
          is the dreamiest guy in the entire
          school - making me the envy of all
          and sundry. He looks like Hercules
          and his hair smells like apricot
          jam.
               (smiles)
          "A hard time"... a hard time?
          I have a hard time staying away
          from the place. School is absolute
          Heaven for me, academically,
          athletically, and socially.

                    STRAWN
              (surprised)
          What? Really?

Mildred smirks bitterly, darkening.

                    MILDRED
          No. Not really. I despise school
          and everyone in it.

Mildred speeds up, itching to escape this conversation.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          We're bleeding daylight faster than
          I'm comfortable with. Let's pick up
          the pace, shall we?

Strawn watches her traipse off, suddenly gripped by sadness.


EXT. WOODS -- DUSK

Mildred and Strawn trudge through deep woods. The sun is
sinking through the tree-line, bathing them in amber half-
light. Strawn freezes, gasping when he sees --

A DEER CARCASS on the ground before them.

Mildred approaches the carcass -- nervous, glancing around.

                     STRAWN
          Jesus...

Strawn notices deep bloody claw-marks on the deer.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Do you think--
                                                         27.


                     MILDRED
              (whispered)
          Yes, I do.

They eye the carcass, real shock and fear between them now.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          One false move out here, and that
          could be us.

They both stand there, glancing around fearfully. Mildred
carefully reaches into her rucksack, taking out her camera.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
              (whispered)
          He's here... he's watching us.

                      STRAWN
          Oh god...

Strawn edges closer to her, fear rising. As he does --

He steps on a twig, snapping it --

BUSHES rustle in the distance, the sound of paw-pads
receding, as an animal flees.

                      MILDRED
          Bugger.

                      STRAWN
          Sorry.

She lowers the camera, fuming. The woods fall silent.


EXT. LAKESIDE -- DUSK

The sun sets over a glorious glistening lake, shrouded by
snow-capped mountains.

At the lake's shore, Mildred works to erect a tent. Strawn
just stands there, uselessly. Mildred looks over to him --

                    MILDRED
          Having fun? Must be nice, just
          standing there idly like that,
          soaking it all in.

                    STRAWN
          Do you... want me to help?

                    MILDRED
          I thought you'd never ask.

                    STRAWN
          What can I do?
                                                          28.


                    MILDRED
          You can start a fire.

Strawn looks lost.

                    STRAWN
          How does one... do that?

                    MILDRED
          It's shockingly simple, really.
          You gather a load of dry wood, you
          put it in a big old pile, and you
          set it alight.

Strawn grits his teeth.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          I'd give you a tutorial, but, at
          present, I'm slightly in the middle
          of putting up our bloody tent.

Strawn sighs.

                    STRAWN
          I have an idea.

                    MILDRED
          I bet you do.

                                                HARD CUT TO:


EXT. STREAM -- NIGHT

The stream shimmers in the moonlight. Crickets chirp. The
tent is up and a campfire burns, sparks spiraling skyward.

Mildred and Strawn sit by the fire, eating beans from cans.
Strawn looks exhausted.

                    MILDRED
          Long day, right?

                       STRAWN
          Long day.

He looks out at the gleaming rushing water.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          How's your mom doing?

                    MILDRED
          She's in an induced coma, hovering
          between life and death. Thanks for
          asking.
                                                          29.


                    STRAWN
          No, I mean apart from the whole
          coma thing. You know, generally.
          How is she?

                     MILDRED
          She smokes too much, drinks too
          much, and has terrible taste in
          men.
               (Strawn squirms)
          But she means well. She tries her
          best.

Mildred looks into the campfire's flames, fear in her eyes.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          You could say she's struggling.

                       STRAWN
          With?

Mildred looks up at him, eyes shining in the firelight.

                    MILDRED
          What do you think?

                       STRAWN
          I don't...

                    MILDRED
          The debt, Einstein. She's
          struggling with all the debt.

                       STRAWN
          What debt?

                    MILDRED
          She didn't tell you?

                    STRAWN
          No. She never said anything.

Mildred sighs.

                    MILDRED
          Her sister - my aunt's - afflicted
          with a bit of the old substance
          abuse nonsense.
              (shakes head)
          No, no, it's not nonsense. That's
          not fair. It's a disease.

Strawn nods, understanding.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Mum took out a bunch of loans to
          put her into rehab.
                    (MORE)
                                                        30.
                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Now, Auntie Rita's clean and
          serene, loving life, never felt
          better.
              (darkening)
          Meanwhile, mum's loans are gaining
          interest. She's in the hole. Owes
          50 big ones.

                    STRAWN
          50 thousand..? Jesus.

                    MILDRED
          Why'd you think I'm on the hunt for
          this panther? The reward is fifty K
          for a video of the thing. Problem
          solved, right? Mum'll be off the
          hook, clean slate, not having to
          juggle three stupid jobs.

She smiles, for the first time since we met her.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Plus, you know... between you and
          me, I do really want to see a
          bloody great panther.

Strawn smiles weakly back.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Right. I don't know about you, but
          I'm tuckered. I'm turning in.

She gets up, stretching, heading to the tent. Strawn gets up,
following her.

Mildred crouches, unzipping the tent's entrance. She looks up
at Strawn, serious --

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Before we go in, I want to make one
          thing perfectly clear.

                    STRAWN
          What's that?

                    MILDRED
          I know you have a belly full of
          beans, but this tent is a fart-free
          zone. If you feel any bum-blasters
          brewing, kindly take them outside.
          Are we clear on that?

                    STRAWN
          Sure.
                                                        31.


INT. TENT -- NIGHT

A small electrical lamp illuminates the tent. Strawn and
Mildred lie in separate sleeping bags, next to each other.

Strawn looks at the roof of the tent. He thinks. He sighs.
Then --

                     STRAWN
          I'm sorry things never worked out
          with your mom. I did ask her to
          stay in Vegas with me, you know.
          When she told me she was... when
          you... when she was pregnant, you
          know. I did offer, but she wanted
          to stay here. I don't want you to
          think I didn't want you. Or
          anything like that... It's just...
          it's a lot.
              (then)
          I only met your mom once, for a
          couple of hours. It's such a
          complicated situation. You're not
          the average child, so I feel like I
          can say...

He turns, noticing -- Mildred is asleep, breathing heavily.

Strawn regards the sleeping girl, with sadness.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Goodnight, Mildred.

Mildred' eyelid twitches slightly. Then --

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          You're not really asleep, are you?

Mildred' lip quivers a little. She closes his eyes tighter.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          You just wanted to shut me up,
          didn't you?

                    MILDRED
          Goodnight, Strawn.

Strawn smirks. He switches the lamp off, throwing the tent
into darkness.

                                                  FADE TO:


EXT. CAMPSITE -- NIGHT

As if from a hidden POV:

The tent, small, isolated in the vast moonlit wilds.
                                                          32.


A twig SNAPS somewhere, as we --

                                                   SMASH TO:


INT. TENT

Strawn wakes, reacting to the sound. He sits up, listening.

Rustling from outside...

His eyes gleam with terror. He turns, shaking Mildred -- she
stirs awake, looking up at him, bleary-eyed.

                      MILDRED
            Jesus. What? What is it?

                      STRAWN
            I...

                      MILDRED
            You..?

                      STRAWN
                (sheepish)
            I heard a scary sound.

                      MILDRED
            Am I still dreaming, or did a forty-
            one year-old man really just wake
            an eleven year-old girl to tell her
            he heard a scary sound in the
            night?

He looks self-conscious.

                      STRAWN
            I'm sorry. Never mind. Go back to
            sleep.

She lies down, turned away from him. She listens. Her eyes
can't hide the fear she, too, is feeling.

Strawn listens to the scary sounds outside, nervous.

                                                   FADE TO:


EXT. STREAM -- DAWN

Sun rises over the mountain range. Birds chirp in the woods.
Steam coils off the lake's glassy surface.


INT. TENT

Strawn wakes, sitting up with a weary groan. He sees Mildred'
empty sleeping bag beside him.
                                                          33.


EXT. CAMPSITE -- DAWN

Strawn emerges from the tent, to see --

Mildred, seated on a large rock, drinking coffee, consulting
maps and books. She turns, seeing Strawn --

                    MILDRED
          Sleep well?

                    STRAWN
          No, not really.

                    MILDRED
          Ready to cover some of New
          Zealand's most unforgivingly
          treacherous terrain?

                    STRAWN
          My stomach feels weird and bubbly.

                    MILDRED
          I know. I'm super excited too.

Mildred nods at a cup of coffee beside the campfire.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Get some caffeine in you, and let's
          move. Come on, Strawn.

Strawn picks the coffee up, taking a sip.

                    STRAWN
          You know, you can call me dad.

                    MILDRED
          Why would I do that?

                    STRAWN
          Normally, daughters call their dads
          "dad".

Mildred turns to look at him.

                    MILDRED
          Normally, daughters see their dads
          more than twice a decade.

                    STRAWN
          Maybe oneday you'll actually call
          me dad.

He does a flourish with his hand, making his coffee cup
disappear. She looks on, nonplussed.

                    MILDRED
          Maybe oneday you'll actually do a
          magic trick that impresses me.
                                                        34.


MONTAGE:

The unlikely duo venture further into the wilderness.

Crossing meadows and streams. Climbing perilous hillsides.
Traversing a rope-bridge above a vertiginous chasm.


EXT. MOUNTAIN RANGE -- DAY

You're gliding over a jagged mountain range.

You see Mildred and Strawn, tiny creatures that they are,
marching through wild terrain beneath cobalt sky.


CLOSER

Mildred stops, looking around, disturbed.

                     STRAWN
           What is it..?

                     MILDRED
           We need to find shelter. It's going
           to rain very heavily, and very
           soon.

                     STRAWN
           What? The sky is spotless.

                     MILDRED
           That's what concerns me.

                        STRAWN
           I don't--

                     MILDRED
           It's spotless. What's missing?

                        STRAWN
           What?

                     MILDRED
           What's missing from the sky?

                        STRAWN
           Clouds?

                        MILDRED
           What else?

                        STRAWN
           Planes?

Mildred looks around, thinking.
                                                             35.


                       MILDRED
             Birds, Strawn. They make themselves
             scarce before a big old downpour. I
             don't want to pitch a tent here on
             this soft terrain. We'll have to
             find a cave.

Strawn looks up at the spotless sky, skeptical.

                       STRAWN
             I think you're mistaken. I'm pretty
             confident it's not going to rain.

                                                   HARD CUT TO:


EXT. CAVE OPENING

Torrential rain hammers the rock face.


INT. CAVE

Mildred and Strawn are crouched in a small cramped cave,
eating protein bars in silence. RAIN blasts down outside.

                       STRAWN
             You must go camping a lot.

Mildred chews her bar, sadly.

                       MILDRED
             Believe it or not, this is my first
             time.

                       STRAWN
             What? But you know so much about...
             terrain, and rain, and...

                        MILDRED
             Oh, it's all from books. I always
             ask mum to take me, but you know
             what she's like.
                 (beat)
             Actually you don't. You've only met
             her a couple of times. I forgot.

She sighs.

                        MILDRED (CONT'D)
             She's got me wrapped in cotton
             wool. And bubble wrap. She barely
             even lets me play in the back yard.
                 (then)
             She still walks me to school, you
             know. Still wants to hold my hand
             crossing the road.
                 (then)
                        (MORE)
                                                        36.
                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Does wonders for my social life, as
          you can imagine.

Strawn looks out at the rain, pelting down outside.

                    STRAWN
          Does she ever talk about me?

                    MILDRED
          Why would she do that?

Strawn smiles, stung. Mildred stares out at the rain. Her
thoughts return to her mother, real fear in her eyes. She
turns away from Strawn, hiding herself.

                    STRAWN
          She's going to be okay. She's in
          good hands, I promise you.

She nods. He puts a comforting hand on her shoulder.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          It's alright... to be scared. It's
          normal.

Mildred inhales deeply, glancing back at Strawn -- composure
regained, guard up again.

                    MILDRED
          She said you used to be on telly.
          You were some big-shot magician.
          Then some other big-shot magician
          came along, and you became a small-
          shot magician.

                    STRAWN
          Illusionist.

                    MILDRED
          Right, sorry. So what does the
          average working day look like for
          you now?

                    STRAWN
          I do appearances. Parties.
          I actually did a major celebrity's
          birthday last week.

                    MILDRED
          Excuse me while I hyperventilate.

Strawn's had enough --

                    STRAWN
          You know, you could try being a
          little more respectful.
                                                         37.


                    MILDRED
          Oh, I'm sure I could. I can't
          promise I will.

She sighs, biting her lip, frustration simmering.

As rain hammers down, ground reduced to mud, splattering --

A glorious chorus of BIRDSONG rises, as we --

                                                    CUT TO:


EXT. WOODS -- DAY

Bright sunlight slashes woodland. Birds chirp all around.

Mildred leads the way through damp woods, Strawn lagging.

                    STRAWN
          I work hard, you know. To provide
          for you and your mom.

                    MILDRED
          Levitation and card tricks? Back-
          breaking stuff, I'm sure.

                    STRAWN
          What I do is physically and
          mentally exhausting. My wrist
          strength is equivalent to that of a
          professional wrestler. You think
          it's easy making balloon animals
          for Michael Bolton's kids?

                     MILDRED
          Balloon animals. My, oh my. And
          they say air traffic controllers
          have stressful jobs.
              (then)
          And who the hell is Michael Bolton?

                    STRAWN
          A major celebrity. Anyway,
          whatever. People need magic in
          their lives. I'm doing my best.

Mildred stops, turning to face her father --

                    MILDRED
          And I'm doing my best not to punch
          you in the goolies. Wheteve

                    STRAWN
              (piss and vinegar)
          What did I ever do to you? Why are
          you so angry with me? What is this?
                                                        38.


                    MILDRED
          You really want to have this
          conversation? Now? Here?

                    STRAWN
              (backing down)
          Um. I don't know. No. Maybe not.
          Yeah, let's not.

Mildred is about to speak, but she suddenly freezes, eyes
wide. Strawn looks at her, puzzled --

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          What..?

Mildred stays completely still.

                    MILDRED
          Don't move. Stay completely still.

                    STRAWN
          Is this a trick so you can punch me
          in the "goolies"? Whatever goolies
          are.

                    MILDRED
          No.

Strawn turns, now seeing what Mildred is seeing --

In the woods ahead, a PANTHER roams free.

Strawn's eyes bulge in terror --

                    STRAWN
          Oh no... oh no oh no...

                    MILDRED
          Strawn. Listen to me very
          carefully. Do not - I repeat - do
          not move.

                    STRAWN
          It's the p...p...p...

                    MILDRED
          P-p-p-panther. Yes, it is.

Mildred sees real fear in her father's eyes, and now she's
even more spooked. She edges closer to him, taking his arm.
He stands a little straighter, protective...

                    STRAWN
          What do we do?

                    MILDRED
          Shh... just be quiet...
                                                           39.


                    STRAWN
              (whispering)
          Panthers kill people.

                    MILDRED
          I said be quiet.

                    STRAWN
          Why wouldn't it kill us?

                    MILDRED
              (toughening)
          A) It hasn't seen us. And B) we're
          going to stay very still, and very
          quiet, and very calm.

Strawn just stares at the panther, petrified.

Mildred, with incredible care, removes her back-pack, keeping
eyes fixed on the panther.

She opens the back-pack, rummaging carefully, pulling out a
small VIDEO CAMERA. She switches it on -- aiming it at the
panther --

-- hitting RECORD --


AHEAD

The panther prowls, sniffing the ground. And suddenly --

It STOPS, raising its head --

SEEING MILDRED AND STRAWN.

                    STRAWN
          That's not good is it?

Mildred keeps the camera trained on the panther, hand
trembling, eyes wide...


IN THE VIEWFINDER

The panther just stands there, watching Mildred and Strawn
with shining yellow eyes.

Strawn dry-swallows, gripping Mildred' sleeve, knuckles
white. She grips his wrist with her free hand. Then --

The panther begins prowling TOWARDS MILDRED AND STRAWN.

                       STRAWN
          Do we run?

                    MILDRED
          Think you can outrun a panther?
                                                           40.


                      STRAWN
                (unsure)
            I don't know. Can I?

                      MILDRED
            No, Strawn. You can't.

                      STRAWN
            Then what do we do?

                      MILDRED
            It's alright. I've read all about
            this. We make ourselves big and
            loud. Stretch out, and speak really
            loud.

He stretches his arms and legs out, raising his voice --

                      STRAWN
                           towards us!
            It's heading

                   MILDRED
            Really? You don't       say!
            Thanks                update!
                      for the
                      STRAWN
            You're welcome! But it's
            still coming towards us!
Mildred suddenly freezes, shaking her head.

                      MILDRED
            Bugger. Sorry. I was wrong.

                      STRAWN
            Wrong?

                      MILDRED
            Making yourself big and loud is for
            bears.

                      STRAWN
            Then what about panthers!?

                      MILDRED
            Stay really still and don't make a
            sound.

They both stand completely still, petrified.

The panther prowls closer, eyes on Mildred and Strawn...

Closer...

And then, it STOPS -- a mere five feet away from them.
                                                                    41.


Its ears twitch. It just watches them, motionless.

Mildred keeps filming the beast, hand trembling, trying to
keep the camera steady.

Strawn edges a little closer to her, gripping her free hand.

Mildred just stares at the panther, tears welling up in her
eyes... child and beast observing each other with curiosity
and trepidation. And then --

The panther turns, bounding off into the woods --

Gone.

Mildred and Strawn stand there, shaking, closer than they've
ever been. Speechless, adrenal.

Mildred drops to her knees, delirious, delighted, replaying
the footage on the camera's LCD screen. It's crisp, clear.

She closes her eyes, uttering a silent prayer...

                        MILDRED (CONT'D)
                  (whispered)
             Mum, if you can hear me... it's all going to be
             okay. I promise. PS. I love you... with all my
             heart. There. Happy?

Strawn stumbles back, shock only just hitting him. He gawks
at the surrounding woods, adrenaline surging...

                       STRAWN
             Mildred... tell me you got the
             footage.

                       MILDRED
             I got it. I got the bugger.
             How you holding up?

                       STRAWN
             That... was a close encounter.

                       MILDRED
             Of the fifty thousandth kind.

The sound of RUSHING WATER echoes from somewhere as we --

                                                               CUT TO:


EXT. RIVER

At the banks of a roiling river...

Strawn sits on a rock, still shaken from the panther
encounter. He looks at his HANDS, which tremble, adrenaline
still surging. He shakes them off, exhaling hard.
                                                        42.


Mildred stands at water's edge, foraging in the wild reeds.

                       MILDRED
             How about some scrambled mallard
             eggs with wild fennel for dinner?

Strawn nods reservedly.

                       STRAWN
             Hey, look. Mildred. I'm... I'm
             sorry.

She heads towards him, hands full of delicacies.

                       MILDRED
             For being an absent father?

                       STRAWN
             What? No. I mean... for doubting
             you about the panther.

He thinks.

                       STRAWN (CONT'D)
             And the absent father thing, too.
             Sorry for that.

                       MILDRED
             And I'm sorry about threatening to
             punch you in the goolies. That was
             rude, and un-called for.

                       STRAWN
             And pretty Freudian, when you think
             about it.

                       MILDRED
             Yeah. Sorry.

                       STRAWN
             It's alright. Really.

Strawn gazes at the rushing water, melancholic.

                       STRAWN (CONT'D)
             Not easy, is it? This whole thing.

                       MILDRED
             I'm sorry to change the subject,
             but you're being eaten alive.

A mosquito has landed on Strawn's hand. He flinches, flapping
his hand to get rid of the bug -- it flies off.

Mildred looks at him, bemused.
                                                        43.


                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Most people just squash the
          buggers.

                    STRAWN
          Not me. I'm not a murderer. I
          always used to feel guilty killing
          bugs as a kid. Made me sad,
          thinking about their babies
          wondering where they went.

Mildred begins busying herself with dinner preparation. She
notices something on Strawn --

                    MILDRED
          Speaking of bugs... don't move.

                    STRAWN
          Why?

                    MILDRED
          You've got a Weta on your shoulder.

Strawn suddenly stiffens.

                    STRAWN
          A what?

                    MILDRED
          A Weta. Basically a giant
          flightless cricket that looks like
          the alien from Alien. They've got
          razor-sharp mandibles and an
          agonising bite. Now... slowly turn
          your head, and behold the beautiful
          bugger for yourself.

Strawn slowly moves his head and comes face to face with the
horrific creature. He yelps --

                    STRAWN
          What is that!? What the--

He bounds up, flicking the Weta off, jumping up and down on
it, crushing it underfoot.

He steps back, gasping.

Silence, save for the rushing river.

Mildred looks at him, expression blank.

                    MILDRED
          Think its babies will wonder where
          it went?

Strawn looks defeated.
                                                          44.


EXT. CAMPSITE -- NIGHT

Another campsite has been set up near the water. Tent
assembled, campfire burning.

Strawn and Mildred sit fireside, eating eggs off tin plates.

                    MILDRED
          Do you miss being on telly?

Strawn smirks, memories flooding back. He sours.

                    STRAWN
          No. It's a horrible business. The
          people are terrible. Egomaniacs.
          Bullies. Greedy, soul-sucking
          vampires, all of them.

He looks up at her, vulnerability in his eyes.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          I miss it more than anything.

He looks into the flames.

                    MILDRED
          Who's David? That hiker lady
          mentioned him.

                    STRAWN
          Oh. David Blaine. Guy I used to be
          friends with. Until he stabbed me
          in the back. He stabbed me, and he
          stabbed me, and he stabbed me --
          and just when I thought it was all
          over, that's when he rolled his
          sleeves up for some serious
          stabbing.

Mildred warms her hands on the fire, looking to Strawn.

                    MILDRED
              (sardonic smirk)
          I sense you want to open up and
          tell me the entire story, in
          unflinching detail.

Strawn broods.

                     STRAWN
          We met doing illusions on the
          streets of New York. We became
          inseparable. He was like a big
          brother to me.
              (then)
          We both landed our own TV shows,
          him first, then me. His show was
          called Street Magic.
                     (MORE)
                                                        45.
                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Mine was called Twizted Illusions.
          The "s" in Twisted was a "z".

                      MILDRED
          Twiz-ted.

Strawn stares into the flames, painful memories bubbling...

                    STRAWN
          One day me and David went on a ride
          around Central Park in a horse-
          drawn carriage. We were both
          wearing burgundy velvet shorts. I
          told him I was going to do a series
          of TV specials. I had them all
          worked out, and I talked him
          through the whole thing. I was
          going to be buried alive for a week
          in Central Park, the very park we
          were riding through at the time.
          Then I'd do one where I'd be frozen
          in a block of ice for 72 hours.
          Next, I'd stand on top of a tall
          pillar for 35 hours.

Something in the fire POPS, sending sparks spiraling skyward.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          David just laughed at me. Said I
          was crazy. Nobody could ever pull
          off one of those stunts, let alone
          all of them. And then the little
          greasy worm goes to HBO and pitches
          them my ideas, like they're his
          own. Signs a deal worth millions.
          Then he starts ignoring my calls.

Mildred shakes her head in empathy.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          So I go to confront the bastard.
          He's at this bar in Vegas. He's
          there with all his new showbiz
          buddies. They're all wearing
          backwards baseball caps and these
          baggy black suits with one pants
          leg rolled up. Some weird inside
          joke, or a ritual, or something.
          And I try to talk to David, ask why
          he did that to me, after everything
          we'd been through. And you know
          what he does?

Strawn clenches his jaw, memory still raw...

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          He smiles, and he slowly pours his
          drink over my head.
                    (MORE)
                                                        46.
                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          And then they all start barking at
          me. Like dogs. Just barking,
          barking, barking. David was barking
          the loudest. His face was so red
          and sweaty, his lips were all blue,
          I thought he was having a seizure
          or something.

                    MILDRED
          And what did you do?

Strawn closes his eyes, shame washing over him, unable to
meet his daughter's gaze...

                    STRAWN
          What I always do when I see
          something scary. I ran away.
          As fast as I could, as far as I
          could. Next thing I know, I'm in
          the desert, on my knees, throwing
          up. And I can see bits of squid
          tentacle in my vomit. That's all I
          really remember. The next few
          months are kind of a blur.

Mildred looks miserable. Strawn inhales.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          I moved back in with my mom for a
          while. I just... couldn't do much,
          you know. My show got cancelled. A
          year later, I slowly go back to
          basics. Card tricks on the street,
          booking gigs, parties.

                    MILDRED
          And somewhere in all this, you met
          my mum.

                    STRAWN
          I met your mom, yeah.

                    MILDRED
          I found my her secret diary once.
          Says she met you while she was on a
          girl's trip to Vegas. Says I was
          conceived in the parking lot of a
          convenience store. That's not
          really true, is it?

He nods, guilty.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          And they say romance is dead.
                                                        47.


They sit there in silence. Mildred finally cracks a smile.
Strawn can't help but smile back.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. TENT

The tent, softly glowing in the darkness. Strawn and
Mildred's voices lilt from within --

                      MILDRED (O.S.)
            You're wrong about one thing
            though.

                      STRAWN (O.S.)
            What's that?


INT. TENT

                      MILDRED
            You don't run away from every scary
            thing.

                      STRAWN
            You sure about that?

                      MILDRED
            You're here, aren't you? You flew
            to the other side of the planet to
            take care of a kid you barely know.
            And in the wilderness, to boot.
            Maybe you have a backbone after
            all.

                         STRAWN
            Thank you.

                      MILDRED
            Now let's get some sleep, shall we?

He smiles tiredly. She reaches for the lamp.


EXT. TENT

The tent goes dark.

Crickets chirp. Frogs croak. Fireflies twinkle all around.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. CAMPSITE -- MORNING

Mildred and Strawn sip coffee by the glowing embers of the
campfire.
                                                         48.


                     STRAWN
          So I was thinking. We have the
          panther video. Shall we... maybe
          head home?

                    MILDRED
          Yes. But there's a hot springs I'd
          like to see first. You can handle
          another night in a tent, I hope?

Strawn nods, reluctant, but smiling.

                    STRAWN
          Sure. What's one more night?

Mildred is about to crack wise, but checks herself and
consults the map, then a book. She looks to Strawn.

                    MILDRED
          Hey. There's a place near here
          where we can do a scree run.

                    STRAWN
          What's a scree run?

                                               HARD CUT TO:


EXT. SCREE HILL

Mildred and Strawn are running down a hill comprised of loose
stones, moving with incredible speed.

Strawn loses his footing, rolling down the hill with Mildred.

Mildred also loses her footing -- falling hard, skidding down
the hill beside Strawn, towards --


THE BOTTOM OF THE HILL

Where they lie on their backs -- laughing, gasping for air.

                    MILDRED
          That's a scree run.

Strawn looks over to Mildred, and they share a smile.

The thunder of RUSHING WATER from somewhere as we --

                                                   CUT TO:


EXT. WATERFALL -- DAY

Mildred and Strawn walk beside a roaring waterfall, admiring
its ferocious majesty.
                                                        49.


Then, a man's VOICE calls from somewhere --

                       VOICE (O.S.)
          Kia ora!

They turn, seeing --

A COUPLE (40s) trudging towards them, in hiking gear,
carrying backpacks. Meet ARNOLD and ANGELINA.

They approach. Arnold is Irish, Angelina a New Zealander --

                       ARNOLD
          Kia ora.

                       ANGELINA
          Kia ora.

Mildred and Strawn force smiles.

                    ARNOLD
          A father and daughter on a wee trek
          into the rugged wilderness of New
          Zealand? Is that what we're looking
          at here?

                       STRAWN
          Yeah. Hi.

                    ARNOLD
          My name's Arnold. And this here is
          my missus, Angelina.

                    ANGELINA
          His long-suffering missus.

                    STRAWN
          I'm Strawn. And this is my...
              (stops himself)
          My daughter, Mildred.

Angelina looks impressed by Strawn.

                    ANGELINA
          You're a real American person.

                       STRAWN
          Yes, I am.

                    ANGELINA
          I've never met a real American
          person before. I watch a lot of
          American soap operas though.

                    ARNOLD
          All she does is watch those bloody
          American soap operas.
                                                   50.


                       STRAWN
             They can be addictive. That's why
             they end with cliffhangers. It's to
             make you desperate to watch the
             next episode. It's to get you to
             watch commercials, basically.
             That's how TV works. It's sort of
             disgraceful. There should be laws
             against it. It's disgusting.

Silence.

                       ARNOLD
             So. How are you finding New
             Zealand?

                       STRAWN
             I quite like it, I think.

Arnold smiles.

                       ARNOLD
             We're heading down to a lake that
             looks like it's made of glass. Yes,
             it really is that glossy. Come on,
             walk with us. I could do with some
             grown-up conversation.

Angelina playfully swats Arnold's arm.

                       MILDRED
             So could I.


EXT. TRAIL

Mildred walks beside Angelina, making chit-chat.

                       ANGELINA
             So, tell me everything. What's it
             like growing up in America?

                       MILDRED
             I'd love to tell you, but since
             I've never set foot on American
             soil, I don't have a bloody clue.

                       ANGELINA
             But your dad...

                       MILDRED
             He lives there. I live here.

                       ANGELINA
             You don't want to live there with
             him? If I was a kid, I'd rather
             live in America than boring old New
             Zealand.
                                                       51.


                     MILDRED
          Let's see. I don't like assault
          rifles. I don't like high-fives. I
          don't like corn syrup. I don't like
          people who say "hell yeah" or
          "buddy". And I despise the word
          "dude" with every atom of my being.
              (then)
          I'm not sure America has much to
          offer me.

Angelina looks at her in confusion and bewilderment.

                    ANGELINA
          You don't...

                    MILDRED
          Talk like a normal child. I know.


AHEAD

Strawn walks alongside Arnold.

                    ARNOLD
          So. What's your trade?

                    STRAWN
          Me? I'm an illusionist.

                    ARNOLD
          Like a magician?

                    STRAWN
          Yeah.

                    ARNOLD
          Like David Blaine? I just adore
          that man. He's literally magical.
          League of his own. Nobody else
          comes close, or even close to
          close.

                    STRAWN
              (stung)
          Yeah. What about you?

                    ARNOLD
          Me? I'm a heart surgeon. Not to
          toot my own trombone, but I'm one
          the top five leading heart surgeons
          in all of Oceania.

                    STRAWN
          Wow. I'm impressed by that.
                                                            52.


                      ARNOLD
            A lot of people are. And rightly
            so. It's an impressive job to have.
            I literally save lives. Lives would
            literally end if I didn't
            intervene. So if anything, I'm the
            real magician here. No offense.

They walk on.

                                                  DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. LAKE

Mildred and Angelina skim stones at the sandy shore of a
glittering blue lake.

Strawn and Arnold sit beside each other on a large rock
nearby, drinking coffee. Strawn looks at Mildred and
Angelina, with a twinge of jealousy.

                       ARNOLD
            She's good with kids. They love
            her, they do. It's a natural
            parental warmth she radiates. Some
            people have it...
                (looking at Strawn)
            ... some people don't.
                (then)
            I'm sure you do, though.

Strawn sighs, trying to smile. After some thought, Arnold
turns to Strawn with a solemn expression --

                      ARNOLD (CONT'D)
            I have to tell you something, mate.

                      STRAWN
            What's that?

                      ARNOLD
            You have to promise you'll stay
            cool, calm and collected.

                      STRAWN
            I think I can do that.

                       ARNOLD
            Promise?

                      STRAWN
            Yeah. Sure. I promise.

Arnold looks at the lake, thinking. Strawn turns to him.

                      STRAWN (CONT'D)
            What is it?
                                                        53.


Finally, Arnold fixes Strawn with a cold stare.

                    ARNOLD
          I've kidnapped your daughter.

Strawn lets out an incredulous snort --

                       STRAWN
          Excuse me?

He looks out at Mildred and Angelina, playing happily at the
shoreline. He looks back to Arnold, who's dead serious.

                       STRAWN (CONT'D)
          I don't...

                    ARNOLD
          It may not look like a kidnapping,
          in the conventional sense... but a
          kidnapping is exactly what's
          happening here.

                    STRAWN
          I don't understand...

                    ARNOLD
          Well, try to keep up. The girl is
          now in our custody. I'm about to
          state a few demands. If said
          demands aren't met, the girl will
          remain in our custody. And we
          actually might drown her, because
          she's not exactly the kind of child
          you'd want to keep around. Sorry.
          No filter here.

Strawn dry-swallows, reality dawning on him... He looks out
at Mildred, who looks decidedly un-kidnapped, oblivious.

Angelina glances up at Strawn from afar, steely-eyed. She
mimes strangling Mildred while her back's turned -- then
quickly returns to playful smiles when Mildred turns around.

Then Angelina slyly mimes stabbing Mildred in the back. Then
digging a grave.

Arnold continues...

                    ARNOLD (CONT'D)
          And before you get any ideas, I'd
          like to inform you that I have a
          black belt in karate.

Strawn looks to him, unsure...

                    STRAWN
          Do you really?
                                                        54.


                       ARNOLD
          Yes. I do.

                    STRAWN
          Are you telling the truth?

                    ARNOLD
          I am, actually.

                    STRAWN
          I don't believe you.

                    ARNOLD
          You should believe me.

                    STRAWN
          Do a karate move then.

                    ARNOLD
          I'm not a performing monkey. I'm
          not doing a karate move on command.

                    STRAWN
          Yeah, because you don't know
          karate.

                    ARNOLD
          I do know karate.

                    STRAWN
          I do know you're full of hot air.

                    ARNOLD
          Fine. I won't do a karate move.
          But I will show you this. Look very
          carefully and commit it to memory,
          if you can.

Arnold takes a worn-out leather wallet from his back pocket.
From inside, he pulls out a folded photograph. He unfolds it,
raising it up for Strawn to see.

                    ARNOLD (CONT'D)
          Viddy this.

In the photo: a YOUNGER ARNOLD, with long glossy hair, posing
triumphantly in a martial arts outfit, with - yes - a black
belt tied around his waist.

                    ARNOLD (CONT'D)
          You see that belt?

                       STRAWN
          Yeah.

                    ARNOLD
          Is it green?
                                                        55.


                       STRAWN
          No.

                    ARNOLD
          Is it yellow?

                       STRAWN
          No.

                       ARNOLD
          Is it red?

                       STRAWN
          No.

                     ARNOLD
          Tell me honestly. What color is
          that belt?

                    STRAWN
              (resigned)
          It's... it's black.

Arnold folds the picture, returns it to the wallet, which he
then pockets again. He fixes Strawn with a steely glare --

                     ARNOLD
          That's right. The belt is black. As
          in: it's a black belt. As in: I
          could karate seven shades of crap
          out of you if I wanted to. Now,
          currently, as it happens, I don't
          particularly want to karate seven
          shades of crap out of you.
              (then)
          But that could all change in an
          instant if you bugger around with
          me, in which case I will not
          hesitate to karate seven shades of
          crap out of you. And then probably
          drown your precious daughter.
          Understood, mate?

                       STRAWN
          Yeah.

                    ARNOLD
          Okay. Down to business. Down to the
          real nitty gritty of things. You're
          probably wondering what I want from
          yous.

                    STRAWN
          What do you want from me?

                    ARNOLD
          Your valuables.
                                                        56.


                    STRAWN
          You're not actually serious..?

                    ARNOLD
          I am actually serious. I'm actually
          incredibly serious. If you want
          your darling daughter back, I'll
          require your stuff.

                    STRAWN
          Wait, wait. What is this?

                    ARNOLD
          Have you heard of a blood
          transfusion?

                       STRAWN
          What? Yes.

                    ARNOLD
          This is a stuff transfusion. Your
          stuff is now my stuff. You can
          start by handing over your mobile.
          I believe you yanks call them
          "cellular phones".

Strawn just stares at him, ashen-faced.

                    ARNOLD (CONT'D)
          Do I need to remind you that an
          actual karate champion has
          kidnapped your daughter? Cellular
          phone. Now.

Strawn sighs. He unpockets his iPhone, reluctantly handing it
to Arnold.

                       ARNOLD (CONT'D)
          Passcode.

                    STRAWN
          Please... you don't have to--

                    ARNOLD
          Passcode. I've asked for it twice.
          If you value the structural
          integrity of your clavicle, a third
          time will not be required.

Strawn grits his teeth. Exhales sharply. And --

                    STRAWN
          1981. It's the year I was born.

Arnold taps the code into the phone, unlocking it. Strawn
suddenly looks incredibly embarrassed.
                                                        57.


                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Hey. Just don't look at my photos.
          That all I ask.

Arnold side-eyes him slyly.

                    ARNOLD
          I wasn't actually planning on
          looking at your photos. But now
          that you've said that, I just have
          to look at your photos.

                    STRAWN
          No, please. Don't.

Arnold accesses the photo library.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Please?

Arnold thumbs through images, eyebrow raised. He looks to
Strawn, smirking, wry.

                    ARNOLD
          There are pumps for that, and I'm
          told they actually work.

Strawn looks at his feet, blushing, humiliated.

At the lake shore -- Mildred and Angelina are now doing cart-
wheels on the sand, shrieking with laughter.

                    ARNOLD (CONT'D)
          Right. Now, your camera.

                    STRAWN
          Please don't do this. It's my
          daughter's. It means a lot to her.

                    ARNOLD
          And now it'll mean a lot to me.

Strawn, crushed, reaches to Mildred's bag, pulling out the
camera. Arnold grabs it from him.

                    STRAWN
          I'll call the cops.
          I know your names.

                    ARNOLD
          Arnold and Angelina. Where have you
          heard those names before? Think.

                    STRAWN
          I don't know. Arnold Schwarzenegger
          and Angelina Jolie?
                                                        58.


                    ARNOLD
          Bingo. What do they have in common?

                    STRAWN
          They're... actors.

                    ARNOLD
          And what do actors do?

                    STRAWN
              (realizing)
          They... pretend to be other people.

Arnold nods. Strawn looks at him with a simmering hatred.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          I know your job. One of the leading
          heart surgeons in...
              (resigned)
          You're not really a heart surgeon,
          are you?

                    ARNOLD
          Why would a heart surgeon need to
          relieve hikers of their valuables?

Strawn's losing his grip, face drained, sweat breaking out...

                    STRAWN
          I know what you both look like. The
          cops will do a composite sketch.

                    ARNOLD
          When we get home, I'm going to
          shave my mustache off. I look
          completely different without it.

                    STRAWN
          And Angelina?

                    ARNOLD
          She'll shave hers off too.

                    STRAWN
          You're both bastards.

                    ARNOLD
          We were both born out of wedlock.
          How did you know?

                    STRAWN
          That's not what I meant and you
          know it.

                    ARNOLD
          Wallet. Hand it over.
                                                         59.


Strawn rummages in his pocket, pulling out his wallet,
reluctantly handing it over.

Arnold stands up. He calls to Angelina --

                    ARNOLD (CONT'D)
          Angelina, darling! We're off!

At the shore -- Angelina points to something in the distance,
causing Mildred to stare at it. While Mildred is occupied,
Angelina runs over to Arnold, looking to him expectantly --

                      ANGELINA
          All done?

                     ARNOLD
          Yep. It was a relatively painless
          operation.

Angelina notices -- Mildred' FISHING ROD. She picks it up.

                      ANGELINA
          Nice rod.

                    ARNOLD
              (winking at Strawn)
          Bet that's the first time a woman's
          said that to you.

                    STRAWN
              (to Angelina)
          Hey. Please, don't take that.
          It's my daughter's.

                    ANGELINA
          My nephew is desperate for a
          fishing rod. That's his birthday
          pressie sorted. Cheers.

Angelina nods to Arnold --

                    ANGELINA (CONT'D)
          Get their map and their matches.
          That'll slow them down.

                    ARNOLD
          You're a criminal mastermind, love.
          Why didn't I think of that?

Arnold opens the back-pack's side pocket, taking the box of
matches. He then takes the map.

Strawn watches helplessly as Arnold lights a match, then uses
it to light the entire box of matches -- it bursts into
hissing flames.
                                                           60.


                     ARNOLD (CONT'D)
           When I was at school, I used to
           charge my mates a dollar to watch
           me do that.

                     ANGELINA
           You don't want to know what he
           charged two dollars for.

Arnold shakes his head, disapprovingly. He dangles the map
over the flame, setting it alight.

                     ARNOLD
           I'm sorry, mate. Nothing personal.

                     STRAWN
           What if I come after you?

                     ARNOLD
           You don't seem the type. Let's be
           honest.

Strawn looks rage-filled, crushed.

                      ARNOLD (CONT'D)
           Kia ora.

                      ANGELINA
           Kia ora.

Arnold and Angelina traipse off, back towards the hills.

Silence.

Strawn just sits there, defeated, deflated.

He looks out at the lake, seeing Mildred skimming stones
across the water's glassy surface.

He buries his face in his hands, reality suddenly hitting him
like a freight train.

                      STRAWN
           No...

He looks up at the oblivious Mildred again, tears welling in
his eyes.

He almost laughs, but his face creases into a look of pure
panic instead.

He mutters something to himself.

At the shore, Mildred turns, approaching Strawn.

                     MILDRED
           Where'd they go?
                                                        61.


Mildred sits down on the rock next to Strawn, pulling off her
boot, rattling a bit of gravel out, putting his boot back on.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          I said where'd they go?

Strawn just stares at the water. Mildred follows his gaze,
admiring the glistening lake.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Transfixing, isn't it? The way the
          sunlight sparkles on the surface.
          It's like a royal jewel box has
          been opened and its contents
          scattered across a glossy marble
          floor, in some palace somewhere.

She sidles closer to him, their shoulders touching. After
some deliberation...

                     MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Not to get mushy on you, but I
          think this has honestly been the
          best day of my life. I just... you
          know...
              (then)
          Thank you.

She rests her head against his shoulder, smiling, content.

Strawn just stares ahead, catatonic, on the verge of tears.
Finally --

                    STRAWN
          I have to tell you something.

                    MILDRED
          You're going to get mushy too? Look
          at us. It's like we're in a
          detergent commercial. Sickening.

                    STRAWN
          I have to tell you something, and
          you have to promise you'll stay
          cool, calm and collected.

                     MILDRED
          Alright.

                     STRAWN
          Promise?

Mildred sighs dramatically.

                    MILDRED
          Yes. I promise.

Strawn turns to her at last, fear in his eyes.
                                                           62.


                    STRAWN
          They robbed us.

                       MILDRED
          Pardon me?

                    STRAWN
          They kidnapped you.

                    MILDRED
          Good one, Strawn. Very funny.
          Seriously, where'd they go?

                    STRAWN
          They held you to ransom. They took
          my phone, my money. The map. The
          matches. The fishing rod...
              (pained)
          ... your camera.

Mildred just looks at him, blankly.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          I know it didn't feel like a
          kidnapping, but that's what just
          happened. All we have left is the
          tent and our sleeping bags.

Mildred gets up, moving to her bag -- crouching by it,
rummaging inside -- face slackening when she realizes that
Strawn is telling the truth.

Strawn holds his face in his hands.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Oh god... I'm sorry... I think I'm
          going to throw up...

Mildred stands, looking around -- mind racing, plotting.

                    MILDRED
          Don't. The contents of your stomach
          just quadrupled in value.

Strawn clenches his fists, sadness giving way to anger.

                    STRAWN
          They took everything... the
          camera... the proof... everything.

                    MILDRED
          And you just let them.

                       STRAWN
          I...
                                                        63.


                    MILDRED
          You just handed it over, on a
          silver platter.

                    STRAWN
          I'm so sorry.

                    MILDRED
          Do I need to remind you that that
          fifty thousand was going to save
          mum and me from becoming another
          depressing welfare statistic? It
          was going to save our lives...

Strawn looks at Mildred, lost...

                    STRAWN
          You hate me, don't you?

                    MILDRED
          More than you could possibly
          imagine.

Strawn fights tears...

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          I actually can't even put into
          words how much hate I'm feeling
          towards you right now. You know
          what? I can't stand the sight of
          you. Your idiotic eyeliner and your
          crap low-budget TV magician
          clothes. And your greasy ratty
          hair, and those big dumb dopey
          donkey eyes. You know what? You
          need to move away from me, right
          now.

                    STRAWN
          What was I supposed to do? He was a
          karate master, and--

                    MILDRED
          Move. Away. From. Me. Now.

                    STRAWN
          Mildred... be serious...

                    MILDRED
          I'm dead serious. At least 20
          paces. Like we're in a duel. Now
          go. Move away. I can't stand the
          sight of you. Vacate my eyeline
          entirely. Go!

Strawn moves away slowly, his body mechanics barely
functioning. He eventually finds a stump to sit on, and just
puts his head in his hands.
                                                        64.


                     MILDRED (CONT'D)
           That's not twenty paces. That was
           sixteen paces. And I can still see
           you. Like an unsightly smudge on
           the world, that's what you are.
           Kindly bugger off further.

He looks up at her, mean...

                     STRAWN
           It all makes sense now.

                     MILDRED
           What makes sense?

                     STRAWN
           Now I know why you don't have any
           friends at school and your mom
           never wants to take you camping.

                      MILDRED
                (shocked)
           Excuse me? Are my ears clogged up
           or--

                     STRAWN
           This whole trip, you've been
           nothing but a Grade-A D-bag.

                     MILDRED
           Yeah? Takes one to know one.

                     STRAWN
           A pretentious, prickly little...
           runt.

                     MILDRED
           I know you are, but what am I?

                     STRAWN
           You know something?

                      MILDRED
           What?

He stands, defiant.

                     STRAWN
           You're an asshole.

Silence.

Mildred is speechless. Strawn stares at her with contempt.

                     STRAWN (CONT'D)
           You said twenty paces? Let's make
           it fifty. No, screw that. Let's
           make it one hundred and fifty.
                                                           65.


Strawn gets up and snatches the sleeping bag, heading off
into the bush, loudly counting his strides as he goes --

                       STRAWN (CONT'D)
             1.2.3.4.5.6.7...

His voice fades off as the bush envelopes him - he's no
longer visible, but we can hear his count continuing.

Mildred, baffled, strains to hear him as he recedes off.

                           STRAWN (O.S.) (CONT'D)
             32.33.34.35.36.....

Mildred nervously looks around -- the sun is starting to set,
sharp shadows befalling the area.

                           STRAWN (O.S.) (CONT'D)
             45.46.47.48.49.50 --


Silence.

Mildred sits down next to their remaining gear.

She thinks, biting her lip.

She sighs, morose.


EXT. WOODS

Strawn storms off deeper into the woods. He stops counting
his paces. He looks around...

WIND howls through the trees. Twigs snap around him, echoing.
An unseen bird lets out a chilling screech.

He picks up his pace, descending deeper into the woods, which
darken all around him.

A low guttural GROWL from somewhere startles him.

He flinches, eyes darting around, nerves on edge.

                       STRAWN
             Someone there?

Silence. Then the rustling of leaves...

                       STRAWN (CONT'D)
             Mildred? Are you trying to scare
             me?

No reply. Wind howls through the trees.

                           STRAWN (CONT'D)
             Agh.
                                                        66.


He slows down, looking nervous, turning as --

He walks right into a branch, on which a jumbo-sized WETA is
perched. It slashes its mandibles, emitting an alien hiss --

                     STRAWN (CONT'D)
          No!

The Weta JUMPS right at him --

Strawn yelps, flinching -- he turns, breaking into a frantic
run, panting and whimpering --

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Leave me alone!!

He turns back, too late --

He catches his ankle on a gnarled root, tripping, landing
face-first in --

A shallow POND of muddy water --

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          God damn it.

He stands, dripping, spitting brown water.

He looks around, panic rising as he realizes he's utterly
lost.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. CLEARING

Mildred inhales deeply, eyes closed, regaining her composure.

Then --

Strawn sheepishly re-emerges from the brush, hair a mess,
covered in leaves and twigs, clothes soaked in muddy water.

                    MILDRED
          What's the matter, Mister Twizted
          Illusions? You got scared in the
          big dark spooky woods?

                     STRAWN
          No.

He sags, defeated.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Okay, yeah. I did. I heard some
          creepy sounds. And then I got
          chased by one of those alien bugs.
                                                67.


She raises an eyebrow, pitiful.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          It was a big one, okay? It was like
          a giant green homicidal flying
          lobster. Maybe it was related to
          the one I stomped, and it wanted
          revenge... or something.

She looks at him, resolved.

                    MILDRED
          Now, listen to me and listen
          carefully. The way I see it, we
          have two options.

                    STRAWN
          Yeah? And they are..?

                    MILDRED
          Live or die. It really is that
          simple, Strawn. We can live, or we
          can die. I don't know about you,
          but I'd quite like to live. And I
          plan on getting that fifty grand
          back, too. With or without you.

He sits down next to her, defeated.

                    STRAWN
          We're days from anywhere. We have
          no map, no food, no fishing rod, no
          matches. They took--

                    MILDRED
          Everything. They took everything.
          Thank you for reminding me.

                    STRAWN
          So. What now?

                    MILDRED
          Are you familiar with Maslow's
          hierarchy of needs?

                    STRAWN
          Is that an album? Like classical
          music, or something?

                    MILDRED
          Abraham Maslow. 1943. The hierarchy
          of needs. At the base of the
          pyramid, the fundamental
          physiological human needs. The very
          foundations of survival: shelter,
          warmth, food, and water.

She gestures to the back-packs.
                                                           68.


                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Shelter, we have. Warmth, we have.
          All things considered, we're off to
          a good start.

Mildred examines the surroundings again.

                     MILDRED (CONT'D)
          As calories are in short supply, I
          suggest we make camp here. We have
          food and water on our doorstep.
          We'll plot our next moves from
          there, with clear heads and full
          bellies.
              (beat)
          Now tell me, Strawn. Can you
          whittle?

Strawn looks at her, truly lost.

                    STRAWN
          Can I what?

                                                HARD CUT TO:


EXT. LAKE -- LATER

Mildred finishes erecting the tent.

She looks to Strawn, who is attempting to whittle a tree
branch into a spear. It's not going well.

                    MILDRED
          Keep going.

Strawn nods, continuing. The "spear" is uneven, ragged,
poorly done.

Mildred gets up, assembling a camp fire with care. She tries
rubbing two sticks together, to no avail.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Come on... come on...

She keeps trying, jaw clenched, frustration rising...

Strawn gets an idea. He moves over to the campfire, crouching
beside it.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Get back. I've got this.

                    STRAWN
          You sure about that?

                    MILDRED
          Yes, I'm sure about that.
                                                          69.


                    STRAWN
          I'm just saying, it doesn't look
          like--

                    MILDRED
          Silence. I need to concentrate. Go
          and whittle.

She keeps trying. No sparks. Nothing. Then --

Strawn reaches to the pile of sticks. He snaps his finger,
creating a FLAME -- instantly igniting the fire.

Mildred gawks at him.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          How did you...

                    STRAWN
              (winks)
          It's called magic.

She smiles, impressed.

                    MILDRED
          Alright. I'll give you that one.

She gets up, seeing the poorly-whittled spear on the ground.
She picks it up, looking at it with pity.

                       MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Christ.

                    STRAWN
          I'm sorry. I really don't think I'm
          very good at whittling.

                    MILDRED
          No, I didn't think you would be.
          That's why I asked you to do it.

                       STRAWN
          What? Why?

                    MILDRED
          I wanted to give you a task to
          focus on, something to occupy your
          mind. I'm glad I did. You've calmed
          down, haven't you?

Strawn shakes his head, hopeless.

                    STRAWN
          We're still stranded out here.

Mildred ignores this. She begins expertly whittling the
branch. Within seconds, she's fashioned a sharp spear.
                                                          70.


Strawn eyes the spear's tip, with a twinge of inferiority.

                    MILDRED
          I'm afraid we're going to have a
          very salmon-heavy diet over the
          next few days.

Before Strawn can respond, Mildred kicks her boots off, rolls
her trouser legs up, and heads towards the water, spear held
ready.

Strawn watches her, helpless.

At the lake -- Mildred wades into the water, scanning the
surface, spear held ready.

                    STRAWN
          You really think you can...

In the water, Mildred moves fast, slamming the spear down
with a splash.

She raises the spear, on which a flapping salmon has been
skewered.

                    MILDRED
          Look at this great big bugger..!

Mildred wades out of the water, ambling back to Strawn.

She slaps the salmon down on the ground.

Strawn looks at it, squeamish.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          If you're of a sensitive
          disposition, now might be a good
          time to avert your eyes.

Mildred grabs a rock, raising it aloft. Strawn looks away --

                    STRAWN
          Oh god... I can't watch.

                    MILDRED
              (sombre)
          I'm sorry, mate. I really am.
          Please forgive me.

                    STRAWN
          It's okay...

                    MILDRED
          I was talking to the fish.

Mildred SLAMS THE ROCK DOWN as we --

                                             HARD CUT TO:
                                                        71.


EXT. CAMPSITE -- NIGHT

The mellow fire softly crackles.

Mildred and Strawn eat roasted salmon chunks, drinking boiled
water from tin cans.

Strawn stares into the flames, lost.

                    MILDRED
              (posh Brit accent)
          Fancy a spot of tea, old chap?

                    STRAWN
          Very funny, Mildred. God. I'd kill
          for a cup of tea right now.

Mildred gets up, wandering over to a bush. She plucks a few
leaves off. She then returns to her position by the fire.

She drops leaves into his and Strawn's water.

Strawn just looks at the leaves as they sink to the bottom of
his can.

                    MILDRED
          Piper Excelsum. Known around these
          parts as Kawakawa.

                    STRAWN
          Kawakawa...

                    MILDRED
          It has powerful antiseptic
          properties, and it happens to taste
          scrump-diddly-umptious too. Sling
          that down your gullet.

Strawn sips his tea. He smiles faintly.

                    STRAWN
          It's good. It's really good.

Mildred edges a little closer to her.

                    MILDRED
          You know, Strawn... I don't think
          less of you.

                    STRAWN
          What?

                    MILDRED
          That's what you're thinking, isn't
          it? You failed to be a man. You
          crapped the bed as a protector.
                    (MORE)
                                                        72.
                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Your weakness put us in grave
          danger, and now we're two of the
          8000 people who go missing in New
          Zealand every year.

Strawn slumps, ashamed.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          All because you were naive, and you
          were weak, and you refused the call
          to action... like a coward.

                    STRAWN
          Is that what you think?

                    MILDRED
          No, that's what I think you think.

                    STRAWN
          Which part of it isn't true?
          I really messed this up, didn't I?

Mildred shrugs, deciding not to say anything.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
              (bitter)
          I just let him take everything. I
          let him... I gave it to him on a
          silver platter, like you said.

                    MILDRED
          Are you talking about Arnold, or
          David Blaine?

That hit Strawn. He looks at Mildred, intense...

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Sorry.
              (sighs)
          Look. We lost it all. It's a kick
          in the head, no doubt. But we've
          got grub in our guts, air in our
          lungs, and somewhere cosy to sleep.
          We're not done yet, mate. No way.
          No bloody way. Not on your Nelly.

She gets up, heading tiredly towards the tent. Strawn calls
to her --

                    STRAWN
          Mildred. Hey...

                       MILDRED
                 (turns)
          Yes?

                    STRAWN
          I'm going to look after you.
                                                           73.


She smiles.


INT. TENT

In the murky half-light, Mildred sleeps, snoring loudly.

Strawn lies beside her, wide awake, thinking.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. WOODS

Strawn and Mildred, back-packs on, walk through misty woods
in silence.

Mildred crouches when she sees --

An area filled with wild mushrooms. She unpockets the knife,
cutting the fungi loose, gathering them.

She points to a clump of brownish conical MUSHROOMS growing
out of a damp tree stump --

                       MILDRED
             See those mushrooms there?

Strawn crouches, noticing them, nodding.

                       MILDRED (CONT'D)
             Psilocybe Makarorae. If anything
             happens and we get separated out
             here, don't ever eat those.

                       STRAWN
             Why? What happens?

                       MILDRED
             Full body numbness. Powerful
             hallucinations. Total freakout.

                       STRAWN
             Sounds fun.

Mildred looks confused. Strawn pauses, correcting himself --

                       STRAWN (CONT'D)
             I'm obviously kidding. Don't ever
             take drugs. Drugs are bad. Drugs
             tear families and communities
             apart.

She turns, rummaging through the undergrowth, seeing another
array of fungi.
                                                        74.


                    MILDRED
          Here we go. Pleurotus Parsonsaie.
          Pink oyster mushrooms. That's lunch
          sorted.

She cuts the mushrooms free, raising a handful of grey soggy
fungus to show Strawn.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          I've always wanted to try these.

                    STRAWN
          Why? They look absolutely
          disgusting.

                    MILDRED
          You know what looks absolutely
          disgusting?

                     STRAWN
          What?

                     MILDRED
          Corpses that have succumbed to
          starvation in the wilderness.
              (then)
          Dead people...

Her thoughts drift to her mother again. She darkens, real
fear in her eyes. Strawn nods, understanding.

                     STRAWN
          Okay.


EXT. FIELD -- DUSK

Mildred trudges on, mind racing, still plagued by fear and
worry. Strawn struggles to keep up.

Strawn finally catches up to her. She looks tormented, mind
racing. He looks to her --

                    STRAWN
          Hey. What is it?

She thinks. Insects scream all around.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Mildred? Are you okay..?

                    MILDRED
          I have to tell you something. It'll
          change the way you look at me
          forever, probably. But I have to
          just say it.
                                                        75.


                       STRAWN
             Okay...

She sighs.

                       MILDRED
             I used to wish my mum would just
             disappear. I'd lie awake at night,
             just hoping she'd not be there when
             I woke up. And then you'd come, and
             we'd be together. And you'd
             understand me. Really understand
             me, like she never could. And we'd
             do stuff together. All the things
             mum is too scared to do. Like go
             camping. Hunting. Fishing. The
             stuff of adventures.

Strawn considers this, shocked.

                       MILDRED (CONT'D)
             Maybe my wish came true. But in the
             wrong ways. I don't want my mum to
             go now. And as for you
             understanding me...

She looks at him at last, tears welling in her eyes.

                       STRAWN
             Here. Wipe those eyes. Hold on, I
             have a hankie...

He starts pulling a handkerchief from his pocket... and keeps
pulling... and pulling -- it's a magician's comically long
hankie. He smiles warmly.

She wipes her eyes with her sleeve, offering a faint smile
back.

                       MILDRED
             I'm sorry. Now might be a good time
             to admit something atrocious about
             yourself.

He wipes his eyes with his sleeves. He thinks. And then...

                       STRAWN
             David Blaine didn't screw me over.

                       MILDRED
             But...

                       STRAWN
             He asked me to be his partner on
             his show. He wanted us to be the
             new Penn and Teller. And I
             chickened out. I got scared. I said
             no.
                       (MORE)
                                                           76.
                     STRAWN (CONT'D)
          I see something scary, I run away.
          That's all I do, it's all I've ever
          done.
              (sighs)
          He went straight to the top of the
          A List. I went straight to the
          bottom of the D List. His shows
          blew up. Mine got canned after four
          episodes. He grabbed Emmys... I
          grabbed balloon animals.
              (then)
          And I only have myself to blame.

That hangs there, untouchably awkward and painful. They move
on in silence.

From somewhere, the sound of an EKG MONITOR beeping, getting
faster and louder as we --

                                                     CUT TO:


INT. HOSPITAL ROOM -- NIGHT

Mildred's mother ZO lies unconscious in bed, EKG monitor
beeping. She's still, peaceful. Until, suddenly --

She BOLTS UP in bed -- eyes manic, staring RIGHT AT US,
screaming angrily --

                    ZO
          IS THIS WHAT YOU WANTED!? IS IT!?

Suddenly -- JONESIE THE CAT bounds onto the bed beside her,
claws bared, emitting a deafening HISS as we --

                                                SMASH TO:


INT. TENT -- NIGHT

Mildred WAKES with a gasp, cutting the nightmare short. She
sits up, breathing hard, eyes wild. She grabs Strawn's arm,
shaking it --

Strawn stirs awake, looking up at her, confused --

                    STRAWN
          What? What is it?

She just looks at him, embarrassed.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          If you're going to wake me up in
          the middle of the night, at least
          tell me why.

He sits up, moving closer, paternal softness taking over --
                                                           77.


                       STRAWN (CONT'D)
             Hey. What is it?

                       MILDRED
             I had a bad dream and now I need a
             wee. I don't want to go on my own.

He sees the real vulnerability in her eyes.

                          MILDRED (CONT'D)
             Please?

                       STRAWN
             Yeah. Sure. Okay.


EXT. TENT -- DAWN

The sky is bruise-purple, pre-dawn. Birds chatter in the
trees.

Strawn and Mildred emerge from the tent. Strawn pulls on his
boots, heaving and huffing tiredly.


EXT. HILLSIDE

In the half-light -- Mildred and Strawn traipse up a hillside
in silence.


EXT. WOODS

Dark woods, damp from yesterday's downpour. Strawn and
Mildred approach a clump of bushes.

                          MILDRED
             Stay here.

Strawn yawns, nodding. Mildred heads into the bushes.

Strawn moves to the edge of the woods, looking out at the
vast dim expanse beyond.

And there, at the bottom of the hillside --

A TENT, illuminated from within. Two shadowy forms are
discernible inside. Their hands move, gesticulating.

Mildred walks to Strawn's side, seeing what he's seeing.

From inside the tent, faint VOICES. One male, one female.
Raised, angry... in the midst of an argument.

Strawn glances at Mildred, who furrows her brow.

                       MILDRED (CONT'D)
             You hear those voices?
                                                         78.


                         STRAWN
            Yeah..?

                         MILDRED
            It's them.

                         STRAWN
            Who?

                      MILDRED
            John, Paul, Ringo and George. Who'd
            you think? The buggers who
            "kidnapped" me. Took our
            belongings. Left us for dead.
            Perhaps you remember them?

Strawn considers this.

                      STRAWN
            What do we do?

                      MILDRED
            Isn't it obvious?

                      STRAWN
            Obvious? No, it's not obvious. It's
            actually very far from obvious.

Mildred creeps down the hill, towards the tent.

                      STRAWN (CONT'D)
            Hey, wait. Where are you going?

                      MILDRED
            I'm going to pick a fight.

Strawn moves, heading after her, nervous...

                         STRAWN
            Hold on!


EXT. TENT

Mildred hides behind a bush, close to the tent.

Strawn scrambles to her side, breath fast and shallow.

He's about to speak, but Mildred motions him to hush.

                      MILDRED
                (whispered)
            Shh. Listen...

Strawn leans forward, peering out at the tent.
                                                        79.


Arnold and Angelina's VOICES emanate from within -- a heated
argument is underway between the two. Accusations are hurled,
egos skewered --

                    ARNOLD (O.S.)
          I know you've been seeing Ronnie
          Reynolds.

                    ANGELINA (O.S.)
          Christ, not this again. He's just a
          friend.

                    ARNOLD (O.S.)
          Why did I find his laser-pointer
          under our bed, then?

                    ANGELINA (O.S.)
          Now, hold up. I can explain.

Strawn looks to Mildred, awkward.

                    STRAWN
              (whispered)
          Being an adult... it's, you know...
          I mean, relationships... they're
          just so complicated, and--

                    MILDRED
              (whispered)
          Shhhh. Listen.

Mildred leans forward, listening.

In the tent, Arnold and Angelina continue --

                    ANGELINA (O.S.)
          Look. I'm knackered. Tiring
          business, kidnapping and extortion.
          I need to sleep. Can we iron this
          out in the morning?

                    ARNOLD (O.S.)
          You're a deep-fried anus on a
          stick. And so is Ronnie Reynolds.

                    ANGELINA (O.S.)
          Oh, you silver-tongued devil. Sweet
          dreams to you too.

Inside the tent, the light clicks off.

Strawn looks at Mildred.

                    STRAWN
          You're not seriously going to sneak
          into their tent, are you?
                                                           80.


                    MILDRED
          I'm seriously going to sneak into
          their tent, yes.

Before Strawn can respond, Mildred continues --

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Here's the plan. I'm going in. I'm
          going to grab their bag. I'm going
          to throw it to you, like a rugby
          ball. You're going to catch it, and
          we both just sprint. Back to our
          tent.

                    STRAWN
          What, and lead them straight to our
          headquarters?

                    MILDRED
          Yeah. You're totally right.

He nods, savoring the small victory. She glances around.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          We're going to run up that hill
          over there.

She points to a distant foothill, steep and jagged.

                    STRAWN
          What if they catch us?

                    MILDRED
          They won't.

                    STRAWN
          Why?

                    MILDRED
          Because I'm going to steal their
          boots and snap the tent zipper off.

                    STRAWN
          That is officially the craziest
          thing I've ever heard.

                    MILDRED
          I know. I'm bloody jazzed too.
          Okay, let's move with maximum speed
          and stealth. Go, go, go.

                    STRAWN
          Wait, wait, wait...

                    MILDRED
          No, no, no...
                                                           81.


She rolls out from behind the bush, creeping towards the
tent, slowly. Strawn follows, nervous.


AT THE TENT

Mildred drops to a crawl. She listens carefully --

Silence from inside the tent.

She nods to Strawn, who crouches down, scared. Slowly, with
great concentration, Mildred begins to unzip the tent.

She peers in --


INSIDE THE TENT

Arnold and Angelina are asleep in separate sleeping bags.

Mildred takes a deep breath, and sloooooowly crawls inside.


STRAWN

Watches the tent nervously, nibbling his fingernail,
muttering to himself.

He waits. He looks at the horizon, glowing pink pre-dawn. He
looks back at the tent.

Silence.

Mildred peers out from tent's opening, tossing a RED RUCKSACK
to Strawn -- he catches it, eyes bulging --

Mildred reaches back into the tent, hurls two pairs of hiking
boots into the bush, and slowly closes the zipper down. She
starts to twist the zipper, but --

A YELP from inside the tent -- the LIGHT switches on --
Arnold screams out within --

                     ARNOLD (O.S.)
           What the hell!? Wake up, Syd!
           Intruders! We've been robbed!

                      MILDRED
           Go! Run!

Strawn clasps the rucksack tight, breaking into a run, away
from the tent, towards the distant hill --

Mildred frantically snaps the zipper, sprinting from the
tent, catching up with Strawn --
                                                         82.


BEHIND THEM

Arnold bursts out of the tent, ripping the zipper seam apart,
shouting with rage...

                       ARNOLD
             Come back here immediately, you
             thieving bloody ratbags!

He leaps up, bolting into a BAREFOOT RUN after Strawn and
Mildred --


EXT. FIELD

Strawn and Mildred run -- desperate, frantic --

                       STRAWN
                 (breathless)
             He's going to catch us!

                       MILDRED
                 (breathless)
             No he's not!

                       STRAWN
             How can you be so sure!?

                       MILDRED
             Look at the ground!

Strawn looks down as he runs -- beneath his feet, grass gives
way to sharp jagged GRAVEL --

                       MILDRED (CONT'D)
             Not ideal terrain for barefoot
             running, I'm sure you'll agree!

Strawn smiles, wild-eyed, as they race towards the hills --


BEHIND THEM

Arnold runs onto the jagged gravel, instantly falling,
clasping his feet in agony, screaming --

                       ARNOLD
             Bastarding ballsacks --


MILDRED AND STRAWN

Speed up, giggling maniacally, stealing glances back at their
felled pursuer --

They make a frantic dash up the hillside, between two
cavernous columns of rock --
                                                        83.


EXT. CLIFF

They run to the top of the hill. Mildred's face falls as she
scans the terrain ahead --

They slow down, catching their breath. Arnold's voice echoes
from somewhere in the distance --

                       ARNOLD (O.S.)
             Listen, you muppets! It wasn't
             personal before, but it's highly
             personal now! I'm going to find you
             and I'm going to use lethal karate
             moves on you both! I'm not
             bluffing!

Mildred looks to Strawn.

                       MILDRED
             I've made a catastrophic blunder.

                          STRAWN
             What? Why?

                       MILDRED
             I appear to have led us to a cliff
             edge.

Strawn looks ahead --

They are, indeed, at the precipice of a vertiginous cliff-
edge, precariously lording over a valley 100ft below.

A single mossy ROPE hangs slack across the chasm to an
opposite cliff-face. The final remnants of an ancient rope-
bridge, perhaps.

                       STRAWN
             We can just slowly amble back to
             our tent now, right?

                       MILDRED
             Not yet. Wait a minute.

Mildred opens the pilfered rucksack --

                       MILDRED (CONT'D)
             Let's make sure we've still got the
             proof.

She pulls out the video camera with trembling hands,
muttering a silent prayer to herself.

                       MILDRED (CONT'D)
             Please... please... please...
                                                          84.


She pushes the REWIND button... then PLAY --

                                                    CUT TO:


CAMERA FOOTAGE

POV of Arnold in the tent, tiredly staring right at us.
Angelina must be holding the camera --

                       ANGELINA (O.S.)
             This is a pukka little camera.
             Crisp HD visuals. You look
             handsome, pet.

Arnold stares daggers into the lens... accusingly...

                       ARNOLD
             Do I look as handsome as Ronnie
             Reynolds?

                       ANGELINA (O.S.)
             Now wait just a mi--

                                               CUT TO BLACK:


EXT. CLIFF

Mildred, glassy-eyed, pushes STOP on the camera.

                       MILDRED
             No... They recorded over it...

Mildred lowers the camera, face constricted in rage. She's
about to speak, but suddenly freezes, noticing SOMETHING --

                       STRAWN
             Fifty grand, gone... again.

                       MILDRED
                 (whispering)
             Strawn... we may have more pressing
             issues right now.

                        STRAWN
             What could possibly be more
             pressing than this?

Mildred puts her finger to her lips.

Strawn slowly follows her gaze, gasping when he sees --


THE PANTHER

CAMOUFLAGED IN NEARBY BUSH, BLOCKING THEIR PATH, yellow EYES
fixed on them, a rope of saliva swinging from its maw --
                                                        85.


                    STRAWN
          Yeah. That's quite pressing.

                    MILDRED
          My thoughts exactly.

                    STRAWN
          What do we do? Make ourselves big
          and loud? Or was it quiet and
          still?

She eyes the panther, reading its gestures...

                    MILDRED
          No. He's hungry. They get bold when
          they're hungry. They take risks.

                      STRAWN
          Oh god...

                    MILDRED
          As far as he's concerned, the
          kitchen is open. You're the bangers
          and I'm the mash.

Mildred returns the camera to the rucksack, hooking it over
her shoulder -- she gets up slowly, backing away.

                    STRAWN
          Maybe there's food in their bag.

                    MILDRED
          Reach in and have a look. Slowly.
          No sudden moves.

Strawn carefully unzips the rucksack, reaching in, rummaging
around, finally pulling out --

A dried-up ham sandwich, wrapped in cellophane.

                    STRAWN
          Do panthers eat ham sandwiches?

                    MILDRED
          Let's find out.

Strawn unwraps the sandwich, gingerly tossing it down in
front of the panther, who looks at it with disdain -- then
back at Mildred and Strawn, growling, ready to pounce.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Apparently not.

Strawn looks around -- desperate, panic-stricken -- towards
the cliff's SHEER EDGE -- and the primitive moss-covered ROPE
slung out across the chasm.
                                                           86.


                    STRAWN
              (whispered)
          I have a dumb question.

                     MILDRED
              (whispered)
          In potentially fatal Big Cat
          encounters, there are no dumb
          questions.

                    STRAWN
          Okay. Can panthers climb ropes?

She glances at the rope, making mental calculations.

THE PANTHER GROWLS hungrily, edging CLOSER towards them...

                    MILDRED
          No, they can't.

They back away, hearts pounding...

Strawn stares at the panther, who begins prowling closer...
FANGS bared, salivating...

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          On three, Strawn.

Strawn cringes, petrified.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          One. Deep breaths.

The Panther ROARS, ready to pounce...

Mildred steps closer to the edge...

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Two. Dry your hands.

Strawn whimpers, wiping his sweaty hands on his shirt...

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Three. Don't look down. GO!

Time slows to a crawl. Sound drains to a hollow rumble, as --

Mildred JUMPS for the rope --

The PANTHER leaps towards Strawn --

Strawn cries out, JUMPING off the cliff's edge --

                                                SMASH TO:
                                                          87.


EXT. ROPE BRIDGE

Mildred and Strawn grab the rope, gripping on for dear life,
bodies flailing, legs kicking -- narrowly evading --

THE PANTHER, who pounces to the cliff edge, CLAWS swatting
futilely, ROARING in anger --

                    STRAWN
          Move! Lets go! Quick!

                    MILDRED
          Wait, wait.

                    STRAWN
          What is it? What's wrong?

                    MILDRED
          Stop moving.

                       STRAWN
          Because..?

                    MILDRED
          I think I can film it.

                    STRAWN
          Are you kidding? You're going to
          get us killed... get across, NOW!

                    MILDRED
          But what if it disappears?

                    STRAWN
          There's a time and a place for
          filming wildlife, and guess what?
          It's not now, and it's not here!

Mildred starts climbing underneath the rope, monkey-bar
style. Strawn follows, teeth gritted. But SUDDENLY --

The rope starts moving side to side. Strawn looks back and
sees the panther swatting at the bridge.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          It's going to tear the rope!

Mildred looks back, eyes bulging -- defensive veneer
shattered, just a petrified kid now. She starts moving
faster.

                    MILDRED
          I can't hold on... my hands are
          slipping...

                    STRAWN
          You can do it... keep going...
                                                           88.


The rope begins FRAYING --

The pace escalates -- a primal ROAR booms around them --

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          We're going to make it...

                    MILDRED
              (looking back)
          I don't like this...

Mildred panics. Her strength gives way --

                      MILDRED (CONT'D)
          No!

She's dangling by one arm, strength fading -- she looks at
Strawn with terror -- her fear just amplifies his own --

                      STRAWN
          No, no...

                    MILDRED
          I can't hold on! Help!

Mildred's hand LOSES ITS GRIP -- she lets go of the rope,
SCREAMING as she drops --

                      MILDRED (CONT'D)
          No!

Strawn's hand appears out of nowhere, grabbing Mildred's,
tight --

Mildred SWINGS below Strawn now, screams echoing off rock --

                    STRAWN
          I've got you. I've got you.

She just stares up at him, helpless.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          I told you I had the wrist strength
          of a professional wrestler. Did you
          believe me?

                    MILDRED
          Honestly... no.

Before Strawn can respond --

The rope's threads SNAP more!

Mildred immediately starts trying to grab the rope with her
free hand -- swaying wildly, YELLING out --

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Come on, come on..!
                                                         89.


THE PANTHER

At the precipice, growls and swats at the rope --


STRAWN

Tries to reach Mildred's flailing HAND --

                    STRAWN
          Stop moving. Stay calm. I've got
          you. Hey...
              (simmering)
          I've got you.

Mildred silently nods, surrendering...

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Now reach over and gra-

SNAP!

R.I.P rope.

                     STRAWN (CONT'D)
          HOLD ON!

They DROP, swinging in a Tarzan arc towards the other side of
the ravine, both SCREAMING --

Their bodies SLAM against the rock face with a ghastly crack,
blasting the air out of them.


THE PANTHER

Cocks its head, confused by their sudden disappearance. It
turns, creeping off, gone.

                                                    CUT TO:


EXT. RAVINE

STRAWN'S FACE. Pale, eyes half-open, drifting in and out of
consciousness, muttering to himself in a daze --

                    STRAWN
              (delirious)
          Get a drink... have a good time
          now... welcome to paradise...

He's lying on his back at the bottom of the ravine, a small
bloody wound on his forehead.

He blinks, regaining consciousness, disoriented.

A muffled sound resolves into focus --
                                                          90.


SCREAMING, ringing out from somewhere close -- loud and
desperate --

He turns, eyes widening when he sees --

MILDRED, lying nearby. Her elbow is dislocated, at a
grotesque angle. A large TREE has fallen on her, pinning her
legs. She cries out --

                    MILDRED
          Please! Help!

Strawn weakly hoists himself up, trembling. His clothing is
torn, knees bloody, hands grazed.

He staggers to Mildred's side, looking at her in horror --

                      STRAWN
          Jesus...

She cries in pain, looking up at him with desperate
vulnerable eyes --

                     MILDRED
          Help me... help me... please oh god
          help me...

Panic washes over him. He looks at the TREE pinning her
little legs down. He goes to grab it, but she shouts out --

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Ow Ow! No, no! Don't move it...

He looks at her dislocated elbow. He winces, face ashen...

                    STRAWN
          It's going to be okay, Mildred.
          You're going to be fine. Looks like
          you've just got...
              (wincing)
          A sore elbow.

                    MILDRED
              (pained, breathless)
          It's dislocated... and... the tree
          has crushed my legs...

                      STRAWN
          Oh Jesus.

He stifles a wave of nausea.

                    MILDRED
              (breathless)
          Psilocybe Makarorae.

                      STRAWN
          What?
                                                        91.


                          MILDRED
             Mushrooms.

                        STRAWN
             Why are you talking about
             mushrooms?

                       MILDRED
             For... the pain...

He nods, frantic, getting it.

She glances toward a WOODED AREA nearby -- dark,
foreboding...

He sees the woods, clenching his jaw, dry-swallowing.

He staggers off, breaking into a run towards the woods --

She lies back, letting out a pained whimper.


EXT. WOODS

Strawn rushes into the woods, frantically scanning for fungi.

                       STRAWN
             Mushrooms... mushrooms... come on,
             where are you?

He walks deeper into the woods, which seem to darken with
each step he takes.

Twigs snap somewhere. A low howl... wind, or beast?

He steels himself, muttering, burying the fear...

                       STRAWN (CONT'D)
             I'm not scared... I'm not scared...
             I'm not scared...

He steps forth, coming face-to-face with --

Another WETA, perched on a dangling vine, staring right at
him. It braces itself, ready to jump...

He stares at it, with a newfound iron resolve --

                       STRAWN (CONT'D)
             Don't even think about it, you ugly
             bastard.

The Weta stands down, seemingly getting the message.

Strawn carries on, venturing further into the dark woods.
Then --
                                                           92.


He drops to his knees, seeing a clump of fungi around the
base of a damp tree.

He looks at the various species of fungus, unsure which are
Psilocybe Makarorae.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Dammit... which ones are you?
          Brown? Spots? Oh, come on...

From afar, Mildred lets out another SCREAM --

Strawn nods to himself, resolved --

                      STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Screw it.

He grabs at the mushrooms, picking them all, bunching them up
in his hands, racing back out of the woods --


EXT. RAVINE

Strawn rushes back to Mildred, mushrooms in his hands --

                    STRAWN
          I got them all. Just nod which ones
          are the magic ones when I hold them
          up, okay?

Her face is clenched in pain, skin pale and sweaty.

She stares at the mushrooms, nodding at a clump of brownish
conical ones when Strawn raises them --

                      STRAWN (CONT'D)
          How much?

Mildred is nearly passing out from pain, forcing Strawn to
make a fast judgement call.

He breaks some of the mushroom's head off with trembling
fingers --

                      STRAWN (CONT'D)
          Here...

He raises the mushroom sliver to her mouth. She chews it,
swallowing, gasping...

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          How long do they take to kick in?

                    MILDRED
          ... hold... hold my hand...

He crouches beside her, taking her hand -- she jolts in pain,
letting out another guttural scream --
                                                        93.


She grimaces, looking up at the sky --

BIRDS streak across the cobalt morning sky. They move fast,
skittering, like animals in time-lapse.

Strawn squeezes Mildred's hand gently. He looks at her with
sorrow and shame.

                    STRAWN
          I'm so sorry.

She just looks up at him. No pithy comeback. Just a scared
little girl holding her dad's hand.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          I guess this is better than being a
          panther's bangers and mash, though.

She tries to smile, but the pain is too much. She looks up at
the sky again. It seems deeper blue now. Brighter.

All SOUND seems suddenly distant, echoing, hollow...

She looks at Strawn, face slackening...

Her breath slows down...

                    MILDRED
          I think it's starting to work.
          I feel fizzy. Like I've got Lemon &
          Paeroa in my veins.
              (off his look)
          Lemon & Paeroa is a popular fizzy
          drink here.

He looks at her, guilty.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          What are you thinking?

                    STRAWN
          I'm thinking that between getting
          you kidnapped and feeding you
          psychedelics, I've secured my place
          on the Mount Rushmore of
          disappointing dads.

                    MILDRED
          Oh, your place was secured long
          before all of that.

He looks hurt, guilty. She smiles, slightly dazed...

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          I'm kidding. It's great. It's all
          great.... You're great. I'm great.
          The planet, it's great.
                    (MORE)
                                                          94.
                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Lemon & Paeroa is great. Really,
          you should try it sometime.

HER POV -- the sky brightens, deepens, streaks of light
emanating from the sun like glowing tendrils.

REALITY -- she looks at Strawn. She suddenly bursts into a
fit of breathless giggling.

                    STRAWN
          What's so funny?

                    MILDRED
          Light waves. They're hilarious,
          aren't they?

                    STRAWN
          Oh god... did I give you too much?
          I gave you too much, didn't I?

She giggles uncontrollably, gasping for breath. She calms
herself down, looking up at him --

                     MILDRED
          Can you pop my elbow back into
          place now?

He looks at her dislocated elbow, horrified, squeamish.

                    STRAWN
          How?

                    MILDRED
          You know how it doesn't look like a
          normal arm now? Just make it look
          like a normal arm. Make it
          straight. Pop. Snap. Straight.

He moves toward her arm. He clasps her bicep with one hand,
her forearm with his other.

She smiles, blissful.

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          This is the easy part. You've still
          got that bloody great tree to get
          off my legs. Come on, dad.

                    STRAWN
              (stunned)
          What did you say?

                    MILDRED
          What? Nothing.

                    STRAWN
          You called me dad.
                                                        95.


                    MILDRED
          No I didn't.

                    STRAWN
          Yes you did.

                    MILDRED
          Really?
              (smiles)
          I must be tripping.

He smiles faintly.

                     STRAWN
          Ready?

She nods to him, approving. And --

SNAP! He pops her elbow back into place.

She gasps, relieved. She bursts into laughter again.

HER POV -- Strawn glows, celestial, reality throbbing and
undulating --

REALITY -- Strawn looks down at her, then to the tree on her
legs.

He gets up, trying and failing to lift the tree.

                    STRAWN (CONT'D)
          I can't do it... it's too heavy.

                    MILDRED
          No it's not.

                    STRAWN
          I can't do it.

She smiles, looking up at him, dazed...

                    MILDRED
          Ace of Hearts...

                     STRAWN
          What..?

                    MILDRED
          The one you threw... at the
          window... remember? I lied... I was
          just winding you up... that was my
          card...

That hit Strawn. He nods, clasping the tree again.
                                                        96.


                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
              (fading)
          You can do this, dad... levitate...
          magic... I believe in... in...

HER POV -- through swirling pulsating light, Strawn clasps
the tree tight --

MILDRED watches, eyes wide, rapt...

HER POV -- Strawn strains to lift the tree...

MILDRED watches. Tears well in her eyes...

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          Oh... god...

HER POV -- Strawn, as if by magic, begins to RISE OFF THE
GROUND, clasping the tree...

MILDRED stares up at him, in disbelief --

                    MILDRED (CONT'D)
          You're levitating... you're...
          actually levitating...

HER POV -- STRAWN RISES, levitating, tree held in his arms --
he rises, higher and higher, casting the tree aside with
ease.

Suddenly, the light BRIGHTENS even more, engulfing all we
see, image burning up as we --

                                                FLASH TO:


WHITE.

Endless, infinite, pristine.

Birds chirp. Grass rustles in the breeze.

We slowly resolve into an IMAGE --


EXT. MEADOW -- DAY

Strawn, cradling the sleeping Mildred in his arms, wading
through long grass.

His face is haggard and bloody, lips cracked.

He moves with purpose and resolve.

Mildred stirs in his arms. Her eyes blearily open. She looks
up at him, vulnerable, a child... a real child.
                                                        97.


                    MILDRED
              (whispered, rasped)
          I've had... enough of camping. Take
          ... me home...

He smiles tiredly.

                    STRAWN
          What's the magic word?

                    MILDRED
          I love you... with all my heart...

He looks stunned, moved. She passes out again. He holds her
tighter -- marching on, determined.


EXT. PARKING AREA

Strawn carries Mildred through woodlands, struggling, each
step an arduous effort.


EXT. PARKING LOT

He carries her onto the threshold of the small parking lot.

In it, a JEEP is idling. Nearby --

ARNOLD AND ANGELINA are standing, in the midst of an
argument, oblivious to Strawn and Mildred's presence.

                     ARNOLD
          I drive!

                    ANGELINA
          It was your fault we lost them, so
          I get to drive.

                    ARNOLD
          You're carrying on with Ronnie
          Reynolds, so I get to drive!

Behind them -- Strawn silently opens the jeep's back door,
placing Mildred and the RED RUCKSACK on the back seat.

                    ARNOLD (CONT'D)
          I drive! I drive! I DRIVE!

                    ANGELINA
          Oh shut up, Jethro. Just shut up
          and stay shut up forever.

                    ARNOLD
          You stay shut up forever.

Behind them -- Strawn gets into the jeep's driver's seat --
firing up the engine, speeding out of the lot --
                                                             98.


Arnold and Angelina just stare in disbelief as the jeep
speeds off.

                       ARNOLD (CONT'D)
             Those muppets are worse than us!


INT. JEEP

Strawn drives fast, pedal to the metal. He glances at the
half-asleep Mildred in the rear-view mirror --

                       STRAWN
             It's okay... everything's going to
             be okay... I promise...


EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD

FROM ABOVE: The car tears off down a vertiginous winding
road, kicking up dust --


INT. JEEP

Strawn, one hand on the wheel, grabs his recovered iPhone,
attempting to shoot a video of Mildred whilst driving --

                       STRAWN
             Smile for your Mum. She'll never
             believe this.

                        MILDRED
                  (pained)
             Shouldn't you be watching the road?
             Dad!

Strawn turns, looking forward -- eyes wide as he sees --


THE PANTHER

Standing motionless in the road, right up ahead -- about to
get hit --

                         STRAWN
             Look out!

Strawn swerves hard to avoid the beast, as we --

                                                SMASH TO BLACK:


OVER BLACK

A deafening cacophony -- metal crushed, glass shattered.
Silence. Then --
                                                           99.


Breathing. Laboured. Fast. The chirp of an EKG MONITOR, as we

                                                 FADE TO:


INT. HOSPITAL ROOM

Mildred's eyes open, adjusting to the fluorescent light.

She's on a hospital bed, face scraped up, head bandaged, leg
in a plaster cast. She slowly glances to her right --

STRAWN sleeps peacefully on a bed next to hers. His legs are
elevated in plaster casts.

Mildred looks to her left -- Mother ZO, head bandaged, sleeps
in a bed on her other side, an EKG monitor chirping steadily.

Mildred takes her hand, holding it. With her other, he takes
Strawn's hand, gently squeezing it. Strawn stirs, a faint
smile on his face, a murmur... Then --

Mildred's CAT inexplicably prowls into the room, jumping onto
her bed, purring. Mildred closes her eyes, a dazed smile
creeping across her face.

The family lie there, reunited.

                                                FADE OUT:


CREDITS ROLL

Credits begin, but are interrupted by STATIC VIDEO FUZZ,
resolving into --


IPHONE CAMERA FOOTAGE

We see MILDRED IN THE CAR, panicked, staring past the lens --

                    MILDRED
          Shouldn't you be watching the road?
          Dad!

The camera WHIP-PANS from rear to front, and through the
windscreen of the jeep --

We catch the PANTHER, clear as day -- and we FREEZE FRAME.

Proof it's real.


                          THE END






Bookworm
Writers :   Toby Harvard
Genres :   Adventure  Comedy  Drama
User Comments








