




                              FOE




                         Screenplay by

                     Iain Reid & Garth Davis




                   Based on FOE, by Iain Reid




                                          Draft: 13th April, 2022



BLACK.

The sound of a floor creaking as someone walks.

                                           FADE UP QUOTE:




         "One has to be very careful what one takes
                when one goes away forever."

                    - Leonora Carrington




The creaks stop. The sound of a running shower.

                                                  CUT TO:
                                                                 2

1                                                                    1
    INT. FARMHOUSE/BATHROOM - DUSK

    The motionless figure of a woman stands in the shower,
    waiting for the water to cool down. We reveal HEN, late
    twenties and earthy, as she steps under, allowing the water
    to rush over her hair and face.

    The plug is in the bath, so the water builds up around her
    ankles. She turns away from the shower head. She closes her
    eyes, brings her hands up to her face.

    She starts to cry. Her crying intensifies until she's
    silently weeping.

    She's inconsolable. She spits saliva, then covers her mouth
    as if she might vomit, making sure NOT to make any noise. We
    only hear the water running.

    Later, the shower is off; we see Hen on her knees, scooping
    out the captured water from the bath to a few larger plastic
    buckets stacked along the hob.

2                                                                    2
    INT. FARMHOUSE/BEDROOM - DUSK

    From the bedroom door, we see Hen, sitting alone on the bed,
    hair wet, draped in her towel, only the sounds of an empty
    dry wind brushing the house.

    She's facing the mirror on her wall, displeased with
    something, deep in thought, a strained expression on her face
    as if talking to herself with her eyes.

                                                 DISSOLVE TO:

3                                                                    3
    EXT. RURAL PLAINS - NIGHT

    A distant, piercing speck of pale green light appears on the
    dark horizon. It grows, moving towards us hypnotically,
    becoming headlights.

    The tiny lights stretch, snaking through what we see is an
    endlessly vast, isolated, rural landscape.

4                                                                    4
    INT. RURAL PLAINS - CAR/POV - NIGHT CONT.

    In the fully reclined driver's seat, we see the torso of a
    suited man staring up through the open sunroof. The self-
    driving steering wheel guides him over the rushing road. Dead
    and orphaned trees sweep past like ghosts.

5                                                                    5
    EXT. THE FARM/CAR POV - NIGHT

    The lone car turns into a long, winding gravel drive off the
    main road.
                                                                 3



    Far ahead, the pale green light softly illuminates a
    desolate, white timber farmhouse. A decrepit barn and shed
    sink into the night beside it.

    The car slows, then creeps to a stop.

    A soft car alert repeats, triggering the man to move, but we
    are still yet to see his face. His seat automatically
    inclines.

6                                                                    6
    INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

    The green headlights from outside fall on a motionless hand,
    in an otherwise dark living room. The calloused fingers begin
    to uncurl.

    We pull back to reveal JUNIOR, a twenty-something farmer,
    asleep on his couch in the fetal position.

    The light washes softly over his sweaty face. He adjusts his
    position, coming to, his weary eyes open to the light. The
    sound of insect murmurations rise.

    He stands and stretches. His shirt is unbuttoned. He
    scratches his torso, picks up an open bottle of beer sitting
    beside him, and walks toward the window into the light.

    He looks out and notices the car stopped at the very far end
    of the drive. He waits to see if the car will turn around, or
    come up to the house. It just sits there, waiting.

                           JUNIOR
              Hen?

    A beat.

                           JUNIOR (CONT'D)
                     (Louder)
              HEN?

    The creak of floorboards above him.

                        JUNIOR (CONT'D)
              You expecting anyone?

    A beat.

                           HEN (O.S.)
              No.

    Junior stares suspiciously at the car, takes a swig of his
    beer. Finally, the car starts moving...toward the house.

                        JUNIOR
              You better get down here.
                                                             4


Junior, hearing her steps on the stairs, turns. Hen appears,
wearing cut-off shorts and a black tank top. For a moment
neither speak, Hen just stares.

                    JUNIOR (CONT'D)
          What? What is it?

                    HEN
          I didn't hear you come in.

The light through the window strengthens over Junior, then
dips him into darkness.

                    JUNIOR
          Someone's here.

Hen walks into the room, turns on the nearby lamp, and stands
by it. Hen watches Junior move back to the window.

                    JUNIOR (CONT'D)
              (Looking out)
          Looks official, doesn't it?

Hen walks over and joins him by the window. The car gets
closer to the house.

                    HEN
              (Looking out)
          Could be.
              (Curious)
          When was the last time we had a
          visitor?

Junior notices Hen's finger curling a strand of hair, her
toes reaching her up to see. Hen catches his stare.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          They must be lost.

The car pulls up, just out of view.

                    JUNIOR
              (Looking out)
          Don't think so.

Junior starts buttoning his shirt, straining to get a view of
the visitor through the window. The sound of a car door
opening and closing.

                    HEN
          He must want something.

Hen moves toward the front door. Behind her, Junior removes
an old rifle from the cabinet in the neighboring study. He
clicks it open to check if it's loaded but finds it empty.
                                                            5


Junior, confused, moves towards Hen, rifle in hand, awkwardly
finishing the final button on his shirt. Hen notices the
rifle.

                    JUNIOR
          Have you been messing with this?

                    HEN
          What are you talking about?

                    JUNIOR
          It's empty.

Hen motions for Junior to put it down.

                    HEN
          We never leave it loaded.

                      JUNIOR
          What?

We hear the sound of footsteps on the porch.

                    HEN
          Put it down for Christ sakes!

Hen's bullish nature births an unexpected smile from Junior.
A knock on the door.

                    JUNIOR
              (To Hen)
          Go on then.

Hen takes a breath, then moves closer to the door. Junior
lowers the rifle, places it against the wall.

                    HEN
              (Through the closed door)
          Hello.

                    TERRANCE (O.S.)
          I'm sorry. I know it's late.

A beat.

                    TERRANCE (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          Is that Henrietta?

Junior steps closer to Hen, standing right behind her.
He puts a hand around her waist. She stiffens slightly.

                    HEN
          Who's that?

                      TERRANCE (O.S.)
          Terrance.

Junior looks at Hen, then back to the door.
                                                            6


                    JUNIOR
          We don't know any Terrance.

                       TERRANCE (O.S.)
          Junior?

Junior is taken-aback that he knows his name, but before he
can respond, Terrance continues.

                    TERRANCE (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          I think you'll want to hear what I
          have to say...both of you.

Hen reaches for the handle, but Junior cuts her off and
cautiously opens the door, just enough to reveal the
stranger.

TERRANCE, taller, leaner, more sophisticated than Junior, is
clearly not a local, wearing a linen suit and white shirt.
He's articulate, urban, charming. He smiles at Junior with a
curious warmth.

                    JUNIOR
          What's this about?

                    TERRANCE
          I'm here on behalf of OuterMore.

                       JUNIOR
          OuterMore?

                     TERRANCE
          The company.
              (beat)
          We do electronics, data mining.
          But our current focus is off-earth
          habitation.

                       JUNIOR
          What?

                    HEN
          I think he means living in space.

Junior looks at Hen with a bemused smile.

                    TERRANCE
          Would it be okay if I came in?

Junior considers his request before opening the door wider,
giving Terrance just enough room to step in.

                       TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          Thank you.

He smiles at Hen as he enters, then holds his hand out to
Junior who ignores it.
                                                            7


                    JUNIOR
          Is there anybody else in the car?

                    TERRANCE
          No, making these visits is my job.

Terrance smiles.

                    HEN
          Would you like to sit down?

Junior nods, reluctantly, and leads them into the living
room. Terrance takes in the room, Hen watching him closely.

                    TERRANCE
          Great place. Charming. Rustic.
          How old is it?

                    JUNIOR
          Old. Couple hundred years.

                    TERRANCE
          Wow...I'm guessing it's always been
          in the family?

                    JUNIOR
          I'm fifth generation.

                    TERRANCE
          I love that.
              (touches the wallpaper)
          You just don't see this anymore.

                    JUNIOR
          Still a few of us left.

                    TERRANCE
          But you don't farm it, do you?

Junior is taken aback.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          How do you guys survive? Make a
          living, I mean.

                    JUNIOR
          We have jobs.

Junior sits in a recliner. Hen sits in a rocking chair.
Terrance sits on the couch in front of them.

Junior looks at Hen. She is staring vacantly at Terrance.

                    TERRANCE
          This is exciting, but before I say
          anything, I'm supposed to show you
          this.
                                                             8


Terrance removes a screen-like device from his case and holds
it in front of him. It plays a video that is typical of
government-style propaganda, moving quickly through images of
rocket launches and the inside of a space station, with
narration touching on the challenges we face with climate,
overpopulation. Junior stares at the screen curiously.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
              (Speaking over the video)
          We've been working on the next
          phase of transition for a long
          time. There's always been several
          possibilities for human existence
          in space.

As Terrance speaks, he stares across at Hen, studying her.
She looks up, their eyes meet.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          The moon. Mars. But with our lands
          and seas transforming, as they are,
          we decided to build our own space
          station, our own planet. Somewhere
          new, somewhere less fickle.

                    JUNIOR
          What's this got to do with us?

                    TERRANCE
          I'm here because of The
          Installation, the first wave of
          temporary resettlement.

The video ends, Terrance puts the screen away in his case.
Junior looks at Hen. She seems distant.

                    JUNIOR
          I think I heard about this shit
          once.

                    HEN
          It's ridiculous. Why are we
          spending money up there when we
          should be fixing things here.

                    TERRANCE
          Our motivation is proactive, to
          help our children's children.

A beat. Terrance looks around and back at Junior.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          You got kids?

Junior looks at Terrance momentarily, then over to Hen.
Before Junior can answer, Hen cuts in.
                                                            9


                    HEN
              (to Terrance)
          Do you?

Terrance stands, removing his jacket. He's sweating visibly
through his shirt.

                    TERRANCE
          I'm used to air-conditioning. Could
          I trouble you for a glass of water?

Hen remains seated momentarily, then stands, grabbing
Junior's empty beer bottle and walks out to the kitchen.

Terrance sits back down and looks around the room. Junior is
growing more suspicious.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          Do you remember a time when there
          were farms around here, with
          livestock and crops. Real
          farms...no offense.

                    JUNIOR
          As a kid. But most have been bought
          up or burned.

                      TERRANCE
          Burned?

                    JUNIOR
          By the corporations. They need the
          land for their hybrid stuff.

                    TERRANCE
          I noticed all the canola on the
          drive. I didn't realize it grew
          this time of year.

                    JUNIOR
          All year round. Barely needs water.

                    TERRANCE
          Doesn't seem natural.

                      JUNIOR
          It's not.

A long silent beat turns awkward.

Hen secretly spies on them both from the kitchen door,
completely motionless, holding a glass of water and a beer.

Terrance leans in close to Junior, relaxed, intimate. The
silence is deafening, Terrance takes it in.
                                                         10


                    TERRANCE
              (softly)
          You could do whatever you want out
          here.

Junior is taken aback at first but then smiles, growing ever
more curious by this stranger.

Hen walks in. She hands the water to Terrance, the beer to
Junior.

                    JUNIOR
          You won't get water like that in
          the city.

                    TERRANCE
          I do love it.

Terrance brings the glass up to his mouth and drinks. Junior
notices him watching Hen as she sits back down. Terrance sets
the empty glass down on the coffee table.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          So, I've been assigned to your
          file.

                    HEN
          We have a file?

                    TERRANCE
          You didn't until...well...recently.

Junior looks to Hen.

                    JUNIOR
          You didn't sign us up for anything
          did you?

                      HEN
                (Defensive)
          No.

Terrance smiles.

                    TERRANCE
          No, you didn't. That's true. But
          we've had our first lottery.

                    HEN
          A lottery...for what?

                    TERRANCE
          For The Installation. And I am
          excited to say that you have made
          the short list.

Terrance looks to Hen.
                                                          11


                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          You're one step closer to living up
          there. This is significant.

Terrance wipes sweat from his forehead. Junior takes a swig
from his beer, doesn't buy any of it, laughs it off.

                    JUNIOR
          Well, you're wasting your time
          here.
              (To Hen)
          We've never even been on an
          airplane.
              (To Terrance)
          She'd hate it.

This comment, his playfulness, provokes Hen.

                    HEN
              (To Junior)
          And you wouldn't?

                    JUNIOR
          I'm just saying. You wouldn't like
          flying.

                    TERRANCE
          Oh, I should clarify. I'm talking
          about you here, Junior. Only you.

                    HEN
          We're not both on the list?

                    TERRANCE
          OuterMore decided Junior was the
          more-

                    HEN
          Desirable candidate?

Terrance notices a resentment in Hen.

                    TERRANCE
          These tests require real physical
          strength, specific skills, that for
          better or worse, exist more in your
          husband.

His patronizing comments make Hen fume. Junior sits up,
starts to realize this is serious.

                    JUNIOR
          You're not fucking around.

Terrance stares directly at Junior.

                    TERRANCE
          Look, this is only a warning.
                                                12


Terrance stops himself.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          Sorry, warning's the wrong word.
          This is good news.

                       HEN
          Good news?

                     TERRANCE
          The first phase of the Installation
          will be a test period...before the
          next phase...which will be
          permanent.

                    JUNIOR
          And the Government knows about
          this?

                    TERRANCE
          We are the Government. Our station
          is orbiting Earth as we speak.

                    HEN
          What if we refuse. What if we just
          say no.

Terrance's mood sharpens.

                    TERRANCE
          You do know about conscription,
          don't you. Like during the old
          wars? If you got picked, you had to
          go. To war. If you didn't, well...

                    JUNIOR
          Are you threatening us?

                    TERRANCE
          Let's not focus on the rule of law.
              (a breath)
          This operation could end up being
          the most important public
          initiative ever. You'd be a hero.

Terrance's intensity softens a little.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          Do you want to live mundane lives,
          like everyone else? Or do you want
          to be part of something special and
          unique?
              (Addressing Hen)
          Because that's what this is really
          about. A chance to be a better
          version of yourself.
                                                          13


                    HEN
          You make it sound pretty good.

                    TERRANCE
          It's time to move on. Our planet
          was marvelous, IS marvelous, but
          it's given us all it can.

                    HEN
          It didn't give us anything. It was
          stolen.

A beat.

                    TERRANCE
          Human beings are designed to
          progress, to expand, to evolve.
              (to Hen)
          Change is one of the only
          certainties in life...

                    HEN
          So is death.

Junior takes a swig of his beer, eyeing Terrance.

                    JUNIOR
          How'd you find us?

                    TERRANCE
          We collect data on everyone...

                    HEN
          Even when we live out here?

                    TERRANCE
          Even when you live out here.

Junior notices Hen stiffen and stare down Terrance.

                    HEN
          You watch us?

                    TERRANCE
          Choosing to live as you do, out
          here, away from the city, creates
          interest.

Junior smiles, finishes his beer, puts it on the table.

                    JUNIOR
          How long is this `short' list?

                    TERRANCE
          I can't reveal that. What I can
          tell you is that nothing will be
          decided for a couple years.
                                                                14


                        JUNIOR
              A couple YEARS?

                        TERRANCE
              Sadly, these tests will run in two
              year cycles.

                        HEN
              And you expect us to just go on
              living, like everything is normal?

                        TERRANCE
              Yes. It is. Nothing has been
              decided yet.

    Hen leans back on the chair, reflecting. Terrance stands.

                        TERRANCE (CONT'D)
              Would it be okay if I used your
              bathroom?

                        HEN
              Fine.

    Terrance walks out of the room, pauses, looks back at them,
    then up the stairs, leaving Junior and Hen alone for the
    first time since he arrived.

                        JUNIOR
                  (whispers to himself)
              `a better version of
              yourself'...christ.

    Incredulous, Junior looks over to Hen, who surfaces a fragile
    smile, but, surprisingly, they don't speak.

    They sit in an awkward, bewildered silence, only the eerie
    creaks of Terrance upstairs.

7                                                                    7
    EXT. DRIVEWAY - NIGHT

    The silence carries as Junior walks with Terrance out to the
    car. Terrance puts his briefcase in the back before casually
    turning back to Junior.

                        TERRANCE
              Do you ever get a little...antsy?
              All alone out here, just the two of
              you? It's so...quiet.

                        JUNIOR
              We like the quiet.

                        TERRANCE
              There's nothing wrong with quiet.
              But this kind of isolation is
              fascinating.
                                                                 15


     Terrance steps around the car, opens his door.

                         TERRANCE (CONT'D)
               I hope we meet again.
                   (a beat)
               Look after that wee Henrietta.

     Junior watches him get in. The car turns around and drives
     back down the driveway, out to the road.

     He takes a moment to stand in the dark silence. He looks
     around his property and then up toward the cloudless sky,
     spotted with stars and tiny flying satellites.

8                                                                     8
     INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

     Junior enters the living room, expecting Hen to be waiting.
     She's not. The lamp has been turned off, the empty glass and
     bottle sit on the table. He peers into the neighboring rooms;
     nothing.

     He grabs the rifle, still leaning against the wall. As he
     takes it back to the study, he glances at the empty chamber.

9                                                                     9
     INT. STUDY (OFF LIVING ROOM) - NIGHT

     He places it back in the rack. Then slides open the drawer
     beside it. Inside there are boxes of bullets. He shuts it
     slowly, confused, then looks up into the glass cabinet above.

     On the shelves is a collection of framed photos, vintage B/W
     images of Junior's family staring out, from an era when the
     farm was operational, abundant. They mostly show the women of
     his family over the generations, proudly positioned, shrine
     like.

     He passes over one of an adolescent Hen on horseback.

     He focuses on another more intently. It's a selfie of Junior
     and Hen. Not framed, loosely stacked. Junior has his arm
     around her. They're younger, both smiling; a beautiful sunset
     displayed behind them.

9B                                                                9B
     INT. STAIRCASE/TOP FLOOR LANDING - NIGHT

     Junior corners up the top of the stairs and moves down the
     landing to their bedroom.

10                                                                10
     INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

     Junior slowly pushes the door to their bedroom open. Hen is
     already in bed, lying on her side, her back to the door.
                                                         16


                    JUNIOR
          Really? You're just gonna go to
          sleep? After that.

Hen doesn't answer. Junior takes a step into the room.

                    HEN
          I'm sorry. Can we talk tomorrow?
          I'm not feeling well.

Junior moves closer to the bed and notices Hen is still in
her clothes. He sits down beside her, starts to take his
socks off. Hen raises her head and looks back toward Junior.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          Do you think you could sleep in the
          guest room tonight?

                    JUNIOR
          What?

                    HEN
          I don't want you to catch anything.

Junior figures she is joking, leans across, and starts
playfully kissing her shoulder.

                    JUNIOR
          Since when has that mattered?

Hen pushes him back firmly.

                    HEN
          I'd rather be alone.

                    JUNIOR
          You're serious. You want me to
          sleep in the guest room?

                    HEN
          Please.

Junior sits back, but he is not buying any of it. He stares
at Hen, contemplates.

                    JUNIOR
          How did you know?

                    HEN
          What?

                    JUNIOR
          Before he got out, you said, `He
          must want something'. How did you
          know it was a man?

                    HEN
          Is that what I said?
                                                              17


                         JUNIOR
               You said it when the car pulled up.

     A beat.

                         HEN
               I don't know.

     Hen can see Junior is far from convinced.

                         HEN (CONT'D)
               It wasn't intentional. If I said
               it, it was without thinking. I'm
               exhausted, and if it's okay, I want
               to sleep.

                         JUNIOR
               When you said it, you were so
               certain-

                         HEN
                   (Sharply, cutting him off)
               Name one woman that would drive up
               here at night alone. Go on.

                         JUNIOR
               The way he was looking at you-

                         HEN
                   (direct)
               Why are you pushing me?

     Junior stands, throws his shirt onto the floor.

     Hen doesn't respond, then pulls the covers up.

                         HEN (CONT'D)
               Could you shut the door?

     A beat.

     He can tell Hen is anxious.

                         JUNIOR
                   (calmer)
               Sure.

11                                                             11
     INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT CONT.

     Junior closes the door behind him and pauses. He stands there
     in the dark on the other side.

     Then, he turns to walk away, and before he reaches the guest
     room, he hears the alien sound of Hen locking their door.
                                                                18

12                                                                 12
     INT. GUEST ROOM - NIGHT CONT.

     Junior stands, surrounded by the clutter of their lives, but
     is suddenly struck by the perfectly made single bed. He
     stares, incredulous.

     He lies down on his back, hardly able to fit, eyes open, time
     and heat pressing in.

                         JUNIOR
                   (Under his breath)
               Fuck.

13                                                                 13
     INT. BEDROOM/HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

     Like a surreal dream, the camera moves through the open door
     of the bedroom, then floats down the stairs. It slows as it
     sweeps into the open living room, catching HEN poised from
     behind. She hears the sound of Junior's truck door opening,
     then moves quickly over to the window.

     Through the slither in the curtain, she watches Junior get in
     and start the truck. Then, slowly, she creeps back to watch
     him drive the truck down the road.

                                                         CUT TO:

     With a playful curiosity,   Hen moves into the kitchen. Buddy
     Holly `Ain't Got No Home'   plays softly on the speakers.
     Surprisingly, she finds a   fresh pot of coffee Junior has
     prepared and an empty cup   at the ready. She brushes the cup
     with her hand, then looks   around the room, imagining.

     Hen softly and haphazardly sings along to the lyrics.

                         HEN
                   (softly singing)
               I ain't got a sister not even a
               brother

               I'm a lonely frog I ain't got a
               home

     Hen surfaces the tiniest smile.

                         HEN (CONT'D)
                   (now in `Frog' voice)
               What you say to me please say to me

                    (loudly to the ceiling)
               What you say to me please say to me

     She stops suddenly, feeling the echo of her words, the
     emptiness of the house.
                                                              19


                         HEN (CONT'D)
                   (shouts)
               I'm a lonely frog I ain't got a
               home!

                                                       CUT TO:

     From the kitchen, the camera floats once again, seeking the
     basement door. It's open. As we move down, we find HEN
     descending the bottom of the stairs. We follow her,
     tentatively, into the basement itself, into the dark.

     She stops by a piano, covered by an old, dusty tarp. It's
     clearly been neglected for a while. She lifts off a section
     of the tarp and looks at the keys, touches them tentatively.

     It takes a moment, but she plays a single note. In the
     sustained, fading note, Hen senses something...

     Pre-lap: the screams of a thousand chickens.

14                                                               14
     INT. CORPORATE CHICKEN TOWERS - MORNING

     ...we move up the inside of an immense, cylindrical chicken
     tower. Hundreds of levels, an endless waterfall of beaks peck
     at the internal feed trays, the light at the top strangely
     haunting, monolithic.

     Another piano note...

     We reveal Junior, on a small elevator, in full PPE, spraying
     the cages as he moves up. He pauses as if sensing Hen's note.
     A strange stillness falls over him, making him standout
     against the mass of moving chickens, like a pebble in a fast
     moving stream.

     ...then a cluster of notes.

15                                                               15
     EXT. ROADSIDE RESTAURANT/MOTEL - MORNING

     A featureless landscape with a never-ending road is awoken by
     HEN. She rides in on her electric bicycle. She turns toward a
     remote roadside restaurant.

     The beginning of an unexplored melody...

16                                                               16
     INT. ROADSIDE RESTAURANT/MOTEL - MORNING

     The open plan restaurant serves mainly the corporate
     industries and their transient high-flyers. It's stark,
     tasteless, and the upmarket feel is at odds with its desolate
     surroundings. Hen stands motionless by a window staring out,
     waiting for a customer to order. A sense of possibility in
     her eyes.
                                                              20


     The melody quickly subsides. Silence hangs.

     The customer begins to order.

17                                                             17
     EXT. FARM SURROUNDS - AFTERNOON

     Both Hen and Junior are tiny figures stretched apart in the
     rural landscape. The farmhouse sits humbly in between.

     Hen, having just showered in her underwear and boots, carries
     a bucket of water in each hand over to the only tree that
     seems to still have life. As she tips the water, Hen
     momentarily looks across the field to Junior, who is now busy
     building a bonfire out of the household rubbish. He catches
     her stare.

18                                                             18
     EXT. BONFIRE - SUNSET/DUSK

     Junior and Hen sit on opposite sides of the burn pit. They
     both hold an open beer. His shirt is undone. His stare fixed
     at Hen, she is wearing a cut-off white shirt. Only the fire
     lights their faces. Neither is speaking. Hen periodically
     glances at him, the heat swallowing them both.

                         JUNIOR
               You know we won't see him again.
               They're not actually interested in
               someone like me.

     Junior swigs the remainder of his beer.

                         HEN
               You might be surprised.

     Junior looks Hen over.

                         JUNIOR
               Do me a favor?

                         HEN
               What?

                         JUNIOR
               Stop wearing that shirt.

                         HEN
               Why? I like this shirt.

     A beat.

                         JUNIOR
               You were wearing it the day we met.

                         HEN
               God, that was so long ago. I can't
               believe you can remember that.
                                                         21


                    JUNIOR
          I really don't want you to wear it.

The comment makes Hen look up at Junior.

                    HEN
          You're being serious?

                    JUNIOR
          The more you wear it, the more worn
          out it'll get.

Junior keeps staring at her. Hen can tell he's serious and is
curious.

                    HEN
          What else do you remember about
          that day?

                    JUNIOR
          Only that I could have taken any
          road, but I didn't. And there you
          were...little Hen, looking lost.
              (Grinning)
          I thought I could help you.

Hen looks into the fire.

                    HEN
          I was surprised to see someone.
              (remembering)
          I remember noticing your hands.
          They looked strong.

                    JUNIOR
          So you figured you'd be safe with
          me? That I'd protect you.

Hen looks up to meet Junior's eyes with a slight tremor of
hesitation.

                    HEN
          I had the feeling that you needed
          me.

Hen leans forward, throwing something in the fire.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          Do you think some things are meant
          to be?

                    JUNIOR
          You mean like fate?
              (a beat)
          Maybe.

Junior stares back through the flames, their eyes meet.
There's a palpable chemistry, but strangely at arms reach.
                                                                 22

19                                                                19
     INT. GUEST ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

     It's oppressively hot. The ever familiar pulsing buzz of
     insects, strangely mesmeric, primal. Junior lies on the guest
     bed, in the dark, yearning for Hen.

     Hen is there in the dark, leaning by the door like a ghost.
     She's like this for several moments, then tentatively
     approaches the edge of the bed.

     She pauses, then sits beside him. She observes his sweating
     body. Then looks to his hand. She seems unsure, but then
     gently touches it. Junior just watches her. She then takes
     his hand and feels its weight fully in hers. Hen's breath
     deepens, and she weaves them. Her hands then move up his arm,
     feeling its curve.

     She removes her underwear, then she crawls on top of him.

     She moves slowly at first. Her movements get faster,
     completely her own. It happens fast. They don't even kiss.

20                                                                20
     INT. GUEST ROOM - EARLY MORNING

     Hen and Junior are squeezed tightly on the single bed. Junior
     wakes up to see Hen on her side, already awake, gazing at
     him.

                         HEN
               It's supposed to be even hotter
               today.

     Junior brushes the hair from her face, wipes the sweat from
     her temple.

                         JUNIOR
               The more you focus on it, the worse
               it is.

     Hen smiles, picks gently at a tiny scar on his forearm.

                         HEN
               Do you still like it here?

                         JUNIOR
               What?

                         HEN
               Do you feel happy here?

                         JUNIOR
                   (taken aback)
               Of course I'm happy here.

     A beat.
                                                         23


                    JUNIOR (CONT'D)
          Aren't you?

She seems surprised he asks this.

                    HEN
          What am I to you?

                    JUNIOR
          I don't understand.

Hen doesn't elaborate. Junior senses something deeper.

                    JUNIOR (CONT'D)
          Is this about me leaving? If you're-

                    HEN
          No, it's not. It's about us.

                    JUNIOR
          Us?

                    HEN
          Did you have any questions when we
          got married?

Junior grows more concerned.

                    JUNIOR
          There shouldn't be questions.

                    HEN
          We all have questions.

                    JUNIOR
          Not when you take your vows.

                     HEN
          In seven years you've never felt
          any doubt?

                    JUNIOR
          Never.

                    HEN
          Getting married straight out of
          school doesn't worry you? Devoting
          the rest of your life to someone
          when you're still a teenager.

                     JUNIOR
          We weren't school friends. We're
          different.

                    HEN
          I know.
                                                     24


                    JUNIOR
          We met at the right time.

Junior stares back. Hen can see his vulnerability.

                    HEN
              (Tenderly)
          I'm sorry. This is just a weird
          time for me. I know I've been
          distant-

                       JUNIOR
          -It's ok.

                    HEN
          I had no idea what to expect. Who
          knows when Terrance'll show up
          again. But when he does, just...

                       JUNIOR
          Just what?

                    HEN
          Nothing. It's nothing. Terrance is
          harmless, that's all.

                    JUNIOR
          How do you know?

                    HEN
          It's obvious to me.

Junior is perplexed, lost at sea.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          What do you think about more: the
          past or the future?

                    JUNIOR
          Jesus...what is this?

                    HEN
          Sorry, I don't mean to pepper you
          with questions like this first
          thing in the morning.

Junior relaxes a little.

                    JUNIOR
          It's ok. I don't mind.

Hen smiles. Junior brushes her with his forehead.

                    JUNIOR (CONT'D)
          I think about the present.

                    HEN
          Really? Tell me more.
                                                                 25


                          JUNIOR
                Well...I think we need a bigger
                bed.

      Hen laughs softly, realizing she's taking up most of the bed,
      moves a little, the two now resting in each other's arms,
      almost comfortably.

                             JUNIOR (CONT'D)
                       (as they laugh)
                Hog.

      Their laughter soon gives way to a kiss, but this time more
      tender, mutual, growing...

21                                                                21
      Omitted

21B                                                              21B
      INT. BATHROOM/SHOWER

      Hen stands motionless in the water. Her mind troubled,
      elsewhere; she breathes through it.

22                                                                22
      INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT

      Hen sits at the piano. The tarp is now completely off.

      She's content, focused, her hands dancing over the keys,
      playing the melody we have been hearing. It's beautiful but
      imperfect, bluesy, and freewheeling.

      Her gaze widens ever slightly, sensing Junior's physical
      presence. A glorious smile surfaces knowing he's there.

      We discover Junior, sitting near the bottom of the basement
      stairs just out of sight, listening to her play with deep
      adoration.

      Time disappears...

                                                       FADE TO:


23                                                                23
      OMITTED

23B                                                              23B
      INT/EXT. GUEST ROOM - DAY

      From the guest room window, we look out across the dead trees
      to the great expanse of the farm. We don't notice it at
      first, but a HUGE wind and dust storm on the horizon is
      moving toward us like a tsunami. It gains, faster.
                                                              26


     The camera moves back into the room, revealing the complete
     picture window and then the guest room bed, now stripped of
     sheets. The light dims and pulses wildly... the camera keeps
     pulling back, into the landing, until there is no more light.

     The storm hits. Black.

                        TITLE: ONE YEAR LATER.

24                                                             24
     INT/EXT. LIVING ROOM/DUST STORM. - DAY CONT

     The wind howls violently, shaking the house. From the dark,
     we move to reveal Junior, deep asleep on the couch. Hen leans
     on the living room window sill, where she has been for some
     time.

     From outside, we see glimpses of Hen in the window...the
     ochre dust and light, ebbs and flows, like she is underwater.
     Her stare piercing, unwavering.

     Hen's POV: A gust thins the dust. We just make out Terrance's
     car. It is marooned half-way along the drive; the storm too
     heavy for him to get out.

25                                                             25
     EXT. DRIVEWAY - AFTERNOON

     The storm has subsided, not a sound, not a breath of wind.
     Hen approaches the car. Her hand reaches out and wipes away a
     layer of dust. Her reflection washes over Terrance; serene,
     asleep. She stares down at him for a while, then gently taps
     the glass. Terrance slowly comes to, surprised to see Hen. A
     warm smile surfaces. The window comes down.

                         HEN
               I didn't know you were coming.

                         TERRANCE
               Sorry. I know this time between my
               visits must have felt a
               little...tense.

                         HEN
               No. It's been good. Different.

                         TERRANCE
               You look well. How's it been?

                         HEN
               Just wish I wasn't so hard on
               myself.
                                                              27

26                                                                26
     INT. LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON CONT.

     Junior is still lying on the couch, but now awake, eyes open,
     alert. He overhears Hen and Terrance as they wander back from
     the car. We never leave Junior's face.

                         TERRANCE(O.S.)
               Where is he?

                         HEN (O.S.)
               Inside.

     Junior sits up slowly. His breaths quickens.

                                                       CUT TO:

     Hen, Junior, and Terrance are sitting in the living room, in
     the same seats they were sitting in during his first visit,
     one year earlier.

                         TERRANCE
               To get the best understanding of
               life up there, the selected group
               needs to be random. All walks of
               life.

     Junior raises his head, reticent, heated.

                         JUNIOR
               So pick someone else. People like
               us don't belong in space.

                         TERRANCE
               That's the whole point. At some
               stage, all of us may need to go.
               Permanently.

     Terrance can see Junior isn't convinced.

                         TERRANCE (CONT'D)
               There'll be handsome compensation
               for you: a thank-you from the
               Government.

     Junior remains silent. Terrance stares at Hen momentarily.

                         TERRANCE (CONT'D)
               Imagine what this could do for the
               two of you.
                   (To Junior)
               Look, you've been gifted a rare
               opportunity that, for now, seems
               daunting. But, why does the unknown
               have to be a burden? Most people
               don't ever consider the full range
               of achievable existence.
                                                  28


                    HEN
          Existence is achievable?

                    TERRANCE
          Yes. Living out of habit is the
          worst kind of prison because the
          bars are concealed.

                    HEN
          Is that what they tell you to say?

                    TERRANCE
          Junior, this is incredibly rare.
          You've been selected. You're going
          to the Installation.

                    JUNIOR
          I don't like how you just show up
          here, say all this shit, and act
          like we should be thanking you, and
          why is it only you who keeps coming
          here? Where's everyone else?

                    TERRANCE
          Would having more people scurrying
          around your house and property
          really be better?

Hen looks at the duffle bag by Terrance's feet.

                    JUNIOR
          What's with the bag?

                    TERRANCE
          Thought I would drop a few things
          off. I'll have to stay, now that
          it's official.

                    HEN
              (Surprised)
          Here? You're staying here?

                    TERRANCE
          If you recall from my first visit-

                    HEN
          I thought we still had longer
          together.

                    TERRANCE
          -It was all explained in the
          paperwork. I would stay temporarily
          if Junior was selected.

                    HEN
          I don't remember that.
                                                                 29


                         TERRANCE
               I assume there's a guest room?

                         HEN
               This is bullshit.

     Hen gets up and walks over to the window.

                         JUNIOR
               Why?

                         TERRANCE
               There's a series of steps to
               complete, observations, data to
               collect, all in preparation. Think
               of it as a series of casual
               interviews.

                         HEN
               When does he leave?

     Junior stares over to Hen, their eyes lock. Terrance notices
     their distress.

                         TERRANCE
               Couple of weeks, and there's lots
               to do. This part is going to start
               going fast.

     A beat.

                         TERRANCE (CONT'D)
               Look. I'll stay nearby, give you
               guys a little more alone time.
               Let's keep it to day visits for
               now.

     Terrance stands, then turns from Junior to lock eyes with
     Hen, a smile blooms.

                         TERRANCE (CONT'D)
               Relax. Celebrate! It's
               official...it's happening.

     Despite the call for celebration, the three of them remain
     spread across the room, each in a statuesque solitude, with
     only the oppressive heat uniting them.

     Terrance removes a camera from his bag and starts taking some
     photos of the room.

27                                                                27
     OMITTED
                                                                30

28                                                                28
     EXT. HEN'S TREE - SUNSET/DUSK

     Junior is far out in the field, picking up plastic and
     rubbish left over from the storm, all the time watching Hen.
     She sits alone under her tree, unaware of Junior.

     She stares out across the distant forgotten paddock. Then she
     notices something on her leg. It's a piece of her own hair.
     She drags it along her leg, then pushes her finger nails
     through it, into her skin. She starts smiling to herself. The
     indents scar her leg.

     She brings a hand up and pinches her cheek. She does it
     again. And again until her eyes start to water. She clenches
     both fists tightly, shutting her eyes. Then she abruptly
     slaps the ground beside her with both hands. She does it
     again and again and again and again, eyes still closed. She
     then opens her eyes and looks up, then spits into the sky.

     She then gets up and walks towards the house on a mission.

     Junior wants to call out, go to her, but decides to fall
     back.

29                                                                29
     INT. GUEST ROOM - DUSK/EVENING

     Junior enters the house, cautiously. There's a lot of abrupt
     movement upstairs. Hen is in a state. He discovers a pile of
     their belongings at the bottom of the stairs. He spots Hen at
     the above landing as she throws more stuff down. Junior
     notices a pair of work gloves, the palms are worn through.

                         JUNIOR
               Hey, these are mine.

                         HEN (O.S.)
               You never wear them, and they
               stink.

                         JUNIOR
               I hate breaking in new gloves.

     Hen appears back over the rail.

                         HEN
               This is why we have so much stuff.
               You can't let go. Of anything.

                         JUNIOR
               What do you mean by that?

     Junior moves up the stairs after her, and corners onto the
     landing. Hen is dragging a box from the Guest room to the
     hallway cupboard.
                                                         31


                    HEN
          It's not like we've been living
          here for twenty years. All this
          stuff is from your past. Not ours.

                    JUNIOR
              (Sharply)
          So? And if you start throwing it
          out randomly I won't know what...
              (He pauses in thought)
          I need this stuff, okay?

Hen seems a bit taken back by his tone.

                    HEN
          Your face is flushed.

A beat.

                    JUNIOR
          I just wish you wouldn't get like
          this. Especially tonight.

                    HEN
          What's so special about tonight?

                    JUNIOR
          We get to be alone.

Junior moves closer to Hen, but she goes back to sorting. She
discovers an old VHS cassette, holds it in her hand.

                    HEN
              (Sarcastically)
          I guess you wanted a quiet night
          in, just like the old days.

                    JUNIOR
          You're acting like this is no big
          deal? Like it's not happening. When
          do you suppose we talk about this?

                    HEN
          This is happening faster than I was
          expecting, and now he's coming to
          stay.

                    JUNIOR
          I don't want you stressing over
          him.

Junior moves over to her, tries to calm her. She moves away
and starts laying new sheets.

                    HEN
          I'm not stressing over him.
                                                            32


                    JUNIOR
          Then what is it? I hate it when you
          get like this.

Hen keeps making the bed. She looks into Junior's tender
eyes, fleetingly, and moves out into the hallway.

                    JUNIOR (CONT'D)
          I'm really worried about you. I
          don't feel good about any of this.

                       HEN
          Really?

She drags another box to the storage cupboard in the hallway.

                    JUNIOR
          I'm worried about leaving you here
          alone.

                    HEN
              (laughs softly)
          You don't have to worry about that.

Junior then watches her as she moves down on her knees, her
back to him, to sort stuff in the closet.

                       HEN (CONT'D)
          Ahhhhhhhhh

Hen shuffles out of the closet, startled.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          Did you see that? That! In there.

Junior leans into the closet. Behind a box at the back, is a
large, horned beetle in the dark. Junior slides the box
enough, so the light falls on it.

The beetle is black and shiny. It has three horns, two on
either side of its head, and one in the middle protruding
upward. Junior is staring at it. He's transfixed.

                    JUNIOR
          I've never seen one like it.

                    HEN
          They're getting bigger and weirder.
          It's that fake canola.
              (to herself)
          Those fucking fields.

Junior continues to stare at the beetle. It's not moving.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          I hope it's not an infestation.
          They'll get into the walls. Christ.
          That's all I need.
                                                              33


                         JUNIOR
                   (Still totally mesmerized)
               It's only one.

                         HEN
               One is too many.

     Hen gives Junior a little tap with her foot.

                         HEN (CONT'D)
               Junior? What is it? You're staring.

                         JUNIOR
               Don't worry. I'll take care of it.

                         HEN
               I'm checking our room for more.

     Hen's steps creak as she walks down the hall.

     Junior is hypnotized - it doesn't appear scared or nervous,
     rather more knowing, poised and ready.

                         JUNIOR
                       (whispering)
               Why aren't you moving?

30                                                                30
     INT. BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

     It's dark. Junior and Hen are asleep in bed. A loud knocking
     breaks the silence.

     Hen wakes up first, sitting up. Junior, still on his stomach,
     opens his eyes.

                         JUNIOR
                   (Mumbling)
               Fucksake.

     Hen, irritated, slowly gets out of bed. She starts getting
     dressed.

                         HEN
               Did he say he was coming back
               today? This early?

     Junior, rolls onto his side, too tired to answer. Hen heads
     for the door.

31                                                                31
     INT. STAIRCASE - MORNING - MOMENTS LATER

     Junior is descending the stairs, putting on his shirt. Half
     way down, he realizes how oddly quiet it is. He slows, and as
     he moves gingerly into the living room, he sees Hen and
     Terrance in the kitchen.
                                                                 34


     Hen is leaning against the counter as the coffee brews.
     Terrance is beside her. Waiting. Saying nothing, unnervingly
     casual, intimate.

     Junior stands there for a while, then enters.

32                                                                32
     INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

                         TERRANCE
               Good morning.

     Junior doesn't reply but looks to Hen, who suddenly busies
     herself with coffee.

                         TERRANCE (CONT'D)
               Actually, Junior, would it be okay
               if Hen and I kept going on our own?

                         JUNIOR
               You want to talk to Hen alone?

                         TERRANCE
               Just for now. Since we've started.

     Junior pours himself a coffee from the pot, then looks at
     Hen.

                         JUNIOR
                   (Softly to Hen)
               I'll be in the barn.

     Hen nods, they briefly kiss as he heads out.

33                                                                33
     INT. BARN - MORNING

     Junior fills up the grain bin, sips the last of his coffee.
     He leans against the wall and in an unsettled trance, watches
     the chickens start to peck at the grain.

     He focuses on the one brown chicken. It triggers a memory, a
     moment from the past that happened right here. A warm smile
     begins to surface as he relives it:

     We see HEN pick up the same brown chicken. She brings it
     close to her face lovingly.

                         HEN
                   (Whispers to the chicken)
               Hello there...

     Hen notices Junior staring at her, she smiles back
     innocently.

                           HEN (CONT'D)
               What?
                                                                 35


     Junior nods `nothing', he is just bathing in her beautiful
     quirks, her `light'.

                         HEN (CONT'D)
               They say the privilege of being
               human is that we get to decide the
               fate of other creatures. That we
               know better. It's crazy. We have no
               clue.

     Junior decides to pick up a chicken...but just as he gets to
     the chicken, it runs away. He almost falls over.

                         HEN (CONT'D)
               Gentle!

                         JUNIOR
               Yeah, yeah, I know

     Hen moves over to him with the brown chicken.

                         HEN
               You have to go slow. Put a hand
               over each wing. Be gentle, like
               this.

     She carefully transfers the chicken to Junior, their hands
     brush together.

     We cut out of the memory, almost seamlessly at the same
     point, just as Junior gently wraps his hands around the same
     brown chicken.

     He breathes, smiles, pats it intimately. But soon, its stare
     becomes penetrating, growing more unsettled, warning him?

34                                                                34
     INT. HOUSE/DINING ROOM - MORNING

     Hen and Terrance are in the midst of a heated discussion.

                         TERRANCE
               One could almost see it as immoral.

                         HEN
               I chose not to. It's a choice. It's
               not immoral.

                         TERRANCE
               It plays on him. People around here
               must wonder.

                         HEN
               I don't give a fuck about what
               people around here think. It's my
               body.
                                                                 36


     Through the widow we see Junior outside, heading back from
     the barn toward the house urgently. Hen leaves the room,
     Terrance follows.

                         TERRANCE (O.S.)
               So you understand why it hurts him.
                   (a beat)
               A child seems like the next natural
               step for both of you.

                         HEN (O.S.)
               ...I chose not to. It is a choice.
               It's not immoral... What? ...it's
               my body!...

35                                                                35
     INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

     Junior enters the kitchen, just as Terrance walks back in
     from the hallway.

                         TERRANCE
               We just finished. Have a seat.

     Junior stays standing.

                         JUNIOR
               What's going on? Where is she?

                          TERRANCE
               She's fine. Here
                   (Pulling out a chair for
                     Junior)
               Have you ever had a custom suit
               made?

                         JUNIOR
               What?

                         TERRANCE
               Well, this is the same sort of
               thing.

     Terrance motions to the chair, Junior reluctantly sits.

     Terrance holds a camera-like device near the back of Junior's
     neck.

                         JUNIOR
               What are you doing?

                         TERRANCE
               Actually, if you could hold your
               legs out straight. It gets a better
               measurement. Here, rest them on
               this.
                                                         37


Terrance puts a stool under his feet, moves the device
closer.

                    JUNIOR
          This is ridiculous.

Terrance takes a seat. Junior slowly looks around the room.

                    TERRANCE
          Junior, have you given much thought
          to traveling? Before I showed up.
              (a beat)
          I know Henrietta has.

                    JUNIOR
          We have responsibilities here at
          the farm.

                    TERRANCE
          That seems sort of fake, doesn't
          it, calling it a farm.

                    JUNIOR
          We have some chickens. The house.
          Land to take care of. It's been a
          farm for-

                    TERRANCE
              (Cutting him off)
          Generations, yeah, yeah, you've
          said that already. But isn't that
          hypocritical?

                     JUNIOR
          No. Why?

Terrance leans in, Junior is taken aback.

                    TERRANCE
          On the one hand, you try to keep
          your family traditions alive, the
          old ways of living, but then you
          work for the very corporations that
          are taking all this away.

                    JUNIOR
          What's this got to with anything?

                    TERRANCE
          Nothing is trivial.

Junior gets defensive.

                    JUNIOR
          How many others have there been?

                     TERRANCE
          Sorry?
                                                         38


                    JUNIOR
          How many have you met with like
          this? Gone into their homes,
          without warning, asking them
          personal questions...

                    TERRANCE
          You know I can't tell you that.

                    JUNIOR
          So what can you tell me?

Terrance stands up, moves directly behind him.

                    TERRANCE
          Sorry, I forgot something.

                    JUNIOR
          What do you want me to do up there?

                     TERRANCE
          You'll be part of a very special
          community.

Terrance is holding a small patch.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          Stay still for a second. I just
          need to put something on you. A
          tiny sensor. You won't feel it.

Terrance pushes the hair on the back of Junior's head up and
presses the sensor into the back of his neck.

Junior flinches and immediately starts touching it with his
fingers.

                    JUNIOR
          I don't want to wear that.

                    TERRANCE
          It's important. Keeps track of your
          blood pressure, heart rate, boring
          stuff like that.

                    JUNIOR
          How long am I supposed to wear it?

                    TERRANCE
          You'll forget it's even there in
          thirty seconds.

A beat.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          Now, close your eyes.

Junior is still rattled by the sensor.
                                                         39


                    JUNIOR
          Close my eyes?

                    TERRANCE
          Just for a minute.

Junior delays then closes his eyes.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          Now, what do you see?

                    JUNIOR
          Nothing. My eyes are closed.

                    TERRANCE
          I know that, but you know what I
          mean. What are you seeing?

                    JUNIOR
          Right now? In my mind?

                    TERRANCE
          Yes.

Junior keeps his eyes closed. Sweat is starting to bead on
his forehead. He smiles.

                    JUNIOR
          Hen.

We reveal Hen. She is leaning against the kitchen door, for
how long we don't know. Terrance sees her and smiles, but
keeps questioning Junior.

                    TERRANCE
          Tell me what you see when you think
          about the time you and Hen took
          over the house.

Something immediately unnerving about that question. Junior
takes a nervous breath, wrestling upsetting images in his
mind we can't see. Junior struggles to answer.

                    JUNIOR
          Ummm. She couldn't manage it.

                    TERRANCE
          She?

                    HEN
          Junior's Mother. She was alone when
          we moved in.

Junior opens his eyes, sees Hen, and smiles.

                    JUNIOR
          Hey. You ok?
                                                                 40


     Hen nods gently.

                         TERRANCE
               What else do you remember from
               those days together?

                         HEN
                   (Glancing at Junior)
               I remember we were happy.

     Junior smiles back at Hen.

                         TERRANCE
               Anything specific, like any
               details, or is it more a feeling?

                         HEN
               Anybody can remember details.
               But that doesn't mean it actually
               happened that way.

     Hen's eyes dart up to Terrance. Through tears, she smiles.

36                                                                36
     EXT. FARM - LATE AFTERNOON THROUGH DUSK

     Terrance is following Junior like a long silent shadow. He's
     observing him, taking photos and notes of his routine around
     the farm; shoveling out ash from the bonfire, turning the
     compost. Junior occasionally stops due to the absurdity of it
     all and stares at Terrance, but Terrance, undeterred, only
     encourages him to continue.

     Against a distant fence, Hen picks tiny red currants from a
     forgotten shrub. She places them in the fold of her dress.
     She pauses. Her fingers are stained red, her wedding ring
     too. On her dress a circle of red bleeds across her abdomen.
     She looks up in the dying light.

     She looks back to the house.

     Hen sees Junior a tiny, inert spec on the porch of their
     withering house, beer in hand, staring back at her.

                         JUNIOR
                   (Shouts)
               COOOO-EEEEE!

     Hen smiles, then laughs; Junior is waiting for her return
     call.

                         HEN
                   (Shouts back)
               COOOO-EEEEE!

     Their warmth and levity slowly subsides, with the
     undercurrent of time, and their lack of it left together.
                                                                41

37                                                               37
     INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

     Junior and Hen are lying in bed. Junior is awake and watching
     Hen in a deep sleep.

     A memory weaves...

38                                                               38
     FLASHBACK: WEDDING - DAY

     Hen standing in a soft cotton dress - its green stripes make
     her look like a spearmint candy. Junior is in a plain suit.
     Hen is holding Junior's hands, immensely happy, despite the
     fact it's raining. There are barely a handful of people in
     attendance, a few co-workers, holding umbrellas over
     themselves.

                         CELEBRANT (O.S.)
               You may now seal your union with a
               kiss.

     Hen and Junior kiss passionately. The small group applauds.

     They share a first dance, allowing the rain to fall over
     them. They move closer, turning slowly. There's no music, so
     Hen HUMS a quiet melody that only they can hear.

     We stay extremely close, Hen pulls away ever slightly, stares
     at Junior, rain and tears in her eyes.

                         HEN
               To new beginnings.

39                                                               39
     INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

     We cut back to Junior, his face barely an inch away from
     Hen's lips as she sleeps.

                         JUNIOR
                   (Whispering)
               New beginnings.


40                                                               40
     OMITTED

41                                                               41
     INT. CORPORATE CHICKEN TOWERS/HANGING ROOM - MORNING

     Junior routinely walks in a procession with other workers,
     down a long narrow corridor. They are overwhelmingly
     surrounded by thousands of suspended chicken carcasses, that
     move and spin along elaborate rail lines.
                                                                 42

42                                                                42
     INT. CORPORATE CHICKEN TOWERS/PROCESSING FLOOR - MORNING

     A kaleidoscope of chicken meat moves hypnotically along the
     production line. Junior is mindlessly packing chicken
     breasts, pre-sorted by fast moving robotic arms. The pace is
     relentless, the repetition mind-numbing.

     Junior seems distant, agitated, losing focus.

     He looks around the room. An urgency rises in him.

43                                                                43
     EXT. ROAD - MORNING

     Junior's truck pulls out onto the highway at high speed,
     leaving the looming silhouettes of the chicken towers behind.

44                                                                44
     INT. TRUCK/ROADSIDE RESTAURANT - MID MORNING

     Junior is filled with a sense of freedom, accelerates in his
     truck. He looks out the window; the moon in the deep blue sky
     is following him, reminding him of his fate. He swivels the
     sun visor above his head, blocking it from view. He then
     pulls off the road into the dusty roadside restaurant
     carpark.

45                                                                45
     INT. ROADSIDE RESTAURANT - MID MORNING CONT.

     Junior walks inside, and clearly looks out of place. He
     wanders around until he spots Hen, who has just seated a
     table of three. He walks up to her as she turns to come back.
     She's both shocked and surprised to see him.

                         HEN
               What's wrong?

     Junior doesn't say anything. He reaches out and takes her
     hand.

                         HEN (CONT'D)
               What are you doing here?

                         JUNIOR
               I started thinking more about
               leaving. Things I'll miss. Things
               that aren't obvious.

     Hen notices her work colleagues staring at her, at him.

                         HEN
               Maybe we should talk outside.

     Junior is tunnel visioned.
                                                                43


                         JUNIOR
               Just like, stupid, little things.
               Like how by the sound of the floor
               creaking, I know that it's your
               steps upstairs. And that no one
               else could ever recognize that, it
               feels like a secret... between
               us...

     Junior gets more intimate, Hen's breath quickens.

                         JUNIOR (CONT'D)
               I'll miss hearing those steps.

     A table of corporate men eyeball them, as they sip their
     coffee, one with a particular coldness.

                         HEN
               Please. Can we talk about this
               tonight. You know we need this job.

                         JUNIOR
               Let's just be together. Right now.

     Hen looks around the diner. She turns back to him, feeling
     pulled.

                         JUNIOR (CONT'D)
               None of this matters.
                   (whispers)
               We're running out of time.

     Hen slowly relents, allowing the room and the staring faces
     to fade away.

46                                                                46
     INT. TRUCK - DAY

     The windows are down, Hen's hair rushes against the passing
     landscape. There is still a reticence in Hen, but as the sun
     streams in, we notice her ever gently reach over, without
     looking, and place her hand atop Junior's. Junior smiles, but
     her grip tightens, like she is afraid. The Canola fields
     stream passed the window.

47                                                                47
     EXT. RURAL CANOLA AND BARREN FIELDS - DAY

     Hen and Junior move into the immense fields of yellow canola.
     They seem to be taking everything in, as if both are becoming
     more aware of the land that he'll be leaving, not wanting to
     take it for granted. A mega industrial harvester moves beyond
     them, the scale unthinkable.
                                                              44

48                                                                48
     EXT. PINK LAKES AND SURROUNDS - AFTERNOON

     Hours later, we see them walk over a huge PINK LAKE, only
     inches deep, caused by high-saline industrial run-off. It's
     like they are on another planet. We look down and see Hen's
     and Junior's bare feet submerged in the shallow pink water.

                         HEN
               She's bleeding...

     A beat.

                          HEN (CONT'D)
               Strange how dying can still be
               beautiful.

                         JUNIOR
               Everything dies.

                         HEN
               Not beauty. It lasts forever.

     A beat.

     Junior's mood shifts, a melancholy takes over.

                         JUNIOR
               Are you afraid?

     Hen looks at her feet in the pink water.

                         HEN
               Of dying? No. Maybe of not being
               ready.

     They move closer to each other. Then their lips touch gently,
     tender, like for the first time, savoring every present
     moment.

49                                                                49
     EXT. BARREN LANDSCAPE - SUNSET

     Soil dirties their naked flesh as they make slow love in a
     powerfully felt desolation...

                                                        LATER:

     Crickets chirp. They lie in a barren landscape. Junior pushes
     his bare feet into the Earth. His feet touch Hen's bare
     feet... she giggles, it tickles. Their mood lightens, and
     they look up at the wondrous sky, the first stars appear.

                         HEN
               How far does it go? What else do
               you think's up there? I used to
               obsess about that as a kid.
                                                           45


                    JUNIOR
          I guess I'll find out.

                    HEN
          Have you ever thought that we're
          not even looking up at the sky?

                    JUNIOR
          What do you mean?

                    HEN
          What if we were looking down. The
          sky below us...

Junior considers but doesn't know how to reply.


                    HEN (CONT'D)
          Try. Think about it.

Junior smiles, perplexed. Hen smiles back, then looks to the
sky. Junior follows her lead and starts staring `down at the
sky'.

A moment of silence, as they both start to feel something.
The camera turns upside down, the two of them hanging above
the deepest blue sky, the most magnificent stars.

                    JUNIOR
              (Sighing in wonder)
          Shit...

Hen laughs, then her breath deepens, surrendering.

The two of them fall into this imaginary, weightless
reverie...then laughter, lots of it.

                                                     LATER:

More laughter. Hen and Junior, tiny naked figures, chase each
other.

Hen tries to smack Junior's bare bum, while getting dressed.
He tries to run away, but he trips on a leg of his jeans.

                    JUNIOR (CONT'D)
          Hey!

Hen is joyously hysterical as Junior charges her. He tumbles
with her, and their playful weave gives way.

                                                     CUT TO:

Closer; they start to dress each other, slowly, full of
breath, full of life, full of adoration.

Then, like a dream, a stray horse enters the open landscape,
scared, flighty. Both of them, taken by it, in awe.
                                                            46



Hen wanders over to it, slowly.

                       HEN
                 (softly)
          Hey.

The horse is wanting her touch but is afraid. A delicate
dance.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          I won't hurt you.

Junior is mesmerized by Hen, how she magically approaches the
horse, calms it, and makes contact. She starts stroking its
face.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
              (whispering)
          Where are you going?

Junior moves closer, careful not to break their intimacy,
their secret conversation.

Hen looks back at Junior, her face beaming with joy. She then
rests her head on the horse, in a beautiful union. Junior is
swept up in their reverie.

But then, on the horizon, more horses running. Junior becomes
alert as he sees what they are running from - a huge smoke
plume rises into the sky. Hen sees it too.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          Another one.

But Junior isn't listening. Rather he starts to run toward
it, scaring the horse. Hen struggles with it.

                       HEN (CONT'D)
          Wait...

Suddenly Junior breaks into an all out run.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          Junior! No!
              (to herself)
          Oh, shit.

                                                  CUT TO:

Junior is now sprinting with vigor, towards the ever-growing
glow. A stray horse, escaping the fire, gallops fearfully in
the opposite direction. Junior howls as it passes.

Hen, far behind, is now sprinting too.
                                                                 47

50                                                                 50
     EXT. UNKNOWN FARM - BURNING BARN - DUSK/NIGHT

     As Junior gets closer, he sees it's a raging barn fire. The
     smoke is now heavy, all-consuming. A surreal universe of
     small embers float past in the wind. He notices a mass of
     Black Beetles scrambling over the glowing earth.

     Hen arrives on foot, but can't see Junior.

                         HEN
               Where are you?!

     A surging gust of fiery wind completely dissolves her within
     smoke and embers.

                         HEN (CONT'D)
               I'm here Junior, I'm here!

     Hen's voice barely audible as Junior is drawn by the fire.
     Part of him wants to try and put it out, another part is in
     awe. He moves closer, faster toward the inferno, but several
     steps into his run, he is hit hard from behind and collapses
     onto the ground, his shoulder slamming into a rock. Someone
     lands on top of him. Smoke and pain envelop him.

     Junior's badly injured. A dark silhouette keeps him pinned
     down with their knees, but it's hard to see who. He's trying
     to steady his vision, but the smoke is intense.

                         MAN (O.S.)
                   (muffled)
               You have him?

     Junior sees the shape of a second person, wearing a black
     suit, disappearing behind him in a flurry.

     Junior, disoriented and in obvious pain, closes his eyes as
     he is dragged ruthlessly across the rough earth.

                         HEN (O.S.)
                   (screams)
               Fuck off. No!

     Black. The screams of Hen. Getting more distant.

                                                        FADE UP:

51                                                                 51
     INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNING

     Junior slowly wakes up, his vision adjusts; across the room,
     he sees Hen helping Terrance move equipment up the staircase.

     Junior listens to them walking around above him.

     Junior tries to sit up, but his body feels immobilized. He
     notices his arm is in a sling.
                                                          48


Hen is coming back down the stairs and spots Junior
distressed, trying to get up. She moves swiftly over to him.

                    HEN
          Junior... wait. No, no, stay down.

He persists, but Hen calms him.

                    JUNIOR
          Did they hurt you?

Hen smiles. There is something different about her, more make-
up?

                    HEN
          What? No, I'm fine.

                    JUNIOR
          Men. There were men. And
          screaming... it was you.

                    HEN
          You're confused. You hurt yourself,
          but you're going to be okay. You're
          lucky.

                    JUNIOR
              (trying to get up)
          We need to tell someone about
          what's happening-

                    HEN
          Tell them what? You had an
          accident, that's all.

                    JUNIOR
          No it wasn't, we're in danger.

                    HEN
          You're the one that ran into the
          fire. Why would you do that?

Junior is now genuinely confused. He can't answer that.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          What was in the fire?

Terrance enters the room.

                    TERRANCE
          I hope this wasn't done
          intentionally.

                    JUNIOR
          You think I did this on purpose?
                                                          49


                    TERRANCE
          An injury doesn't change anything.
          You know that, right?

                    JUNIOR
          I don't even know what happened.

                    TERRANCE
          I'm glad you're okay. How are you
          feeling?

                    JUNIOR
          I can't feel this side of my body.

                    TERRANCE
          That's the meds. They'll wear off
          soon.

Hen leaves for the kitchen. Terrance steps closer.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          But you won't be able to use that
          arm much for a while though. And
          you'll have to get used to that
          recliner of yours.

                    JUNIOR
          Why?

Hen pauses in front of the mirror in the hallway before re-
entering the room.

                    TERRANCE
          You can't sleep lying down, not for
          now. You can recline to about forty-
          five degrees, but that's it.

                    JUNIOR
          What do you mean I can't lie down?

                    TERRANCE
          No, the doctor did a minor
          procedure and...

                    JUNIOR
              (Shocked)
          A procedure? What Doctor?

                    TERRANCE
          She operated on your injured
          shoulder, the tendon. It went very
          well, and she wants to leave it
          covered. You're lucky it's not
          worse.

Junior is trying to remember. How long has he been out?

Hen walks into the living room with a beer.
                                                               50


                          HEN
                    (Handing him the beer)
                Here.

      Hen hands Junior two white pills.

                          HEN (CONT'D)
                You need to take these.

      Junior pauses, still confused, raises the beer to his mouth
      and swallows the pills...

      Pre-lap: Jacqueline Du Pre. Cello Concerto in E minor, Op.85

51B                                                            51B
      EXT. FARM HOUSE - NIGHT

      In the echo of the music, we pan across the landscape to the
      farmhouse.

52                                                              52
      INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

      Terrance slowly enters the room with a new bottle of wine,
      channeling the melancholic beauty of the music being played
      on speakers.

                          TERRANCE
                Jacqueline Du Pre...

      He sits. Terrance stares at Hen.

                          TERRANCE (CONT'D)
                `A musician of nature with an
                unerring instinct.' That's how her
                husband described her.

      Junior stares directly at Terrance.



                          TERRANCE (CONT'D)
                This hasn't been easy on either of
                you. I apologize for that. But it's
                worth it.

      Terrance pours Hen some wine.

                          HEN
                    (to Terrance)
                Can't we delay it?

      He fills up Junior's glass and then his own.

                          TERRANCE
                You've known about the possibility
                of being picked for over a year.
                That's plenty.
                          (MORE)
                                               51
                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
              (drinks)
          South of France. The real thing.

A beat.

                    JUNIOR
          Why are you following me?

Hen starts to look uncomfortable.

                    TERRANCE
          Keeping you safe, both of you, is
          crucial.

                    HEN
          Both of us?

                    TERRANCE
          We're taking Junior away. And
          you've never been alone out here
          before.

                      HEN
                (Fuck you)
          So?

                    TERRANCE
              (to Junior)
          It could be a real strain on her,
          on your marriage.

Hen grows impatient.

                    JUNIOR
          You're the one forcing me to leave
          her.

                    TERRANCE
          So we have to do what's moral.

                    HEN
          And what do you consider moral?

                    TERRANCE
              (to Junior)
          We're going to replace you.

                       JUNIOR
          What?

                    TERRANCE
          We're going to ensure Hen has
          company while you're away.

                    JUNIOR
          Fuck off. No fucking way.
                                                         52


                    TERRANCE
              (to Junior)
          Do you want to leave her all alone
          out here? Day after Day? Night
          after night?

Hen laughs softly, then downs her wine, grabs the bottle to
refill.

                    JUNIOR
          She can handle herself.

                    HEN
          Hellllooooo. I'm right fucking
          here. Why don't you ask me how I
          feel about it?

                     TERRANCE
              (to Hen)
          Calm down.

                    JUNIOR
          You fucking calm down.

                    TERRANCE
          Hear me out. It's not another man.
          We're developing a digital
          replacement.

                    HEN
              (as she drinks)
          Oh my God. Because I'm a woman that
          can't be left by herself?

                    JUNIOR
          What the fuck is he talking about?

                    TERRANCE
          No, but it is complex...and
          expensive, not everyone gets
          offered this.

                    HEN
          That's why you're staying here,
          isn't it?

                    TERRANCE
          In the old days, you would have
          left Hen with a two-dimensional
          photo of yourself. This is the next
          step: a dynamic hologram with
          living tissue, volume, and a body.

                    JUNIOR
          I don't want a fucking robot living
          with my wife.
                                                53


                    TERRANCE
          It's DEFINITELY not a robot. It's a
          new kind of self-determining life-
          form. You'll see. It's going to be
          astonishing.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          They'll be a series of interviews.
          No detail is inconsequential. We'll
          use it all to finish the code.

                    HEN
          That's why you're staying.

                    JUNIOR
              (in disbelief)
          This is fucking insane.

                     TERRANCE
              (to Junior)
          For example, what did you
          breakfast?

Junior stares back, astonished.

                    JUNIOR
          You know what my dad used to get us
          to do when I was old enough.

                    TERRANCE
          What's that?

                    JUNIOR
          Test of manhood.

                    HEN
              (to Junior)
          Don't be an idiot.

                    JUNIOR
          We'd go outside and stand apart.
          Then we'd each get one punch at the
          other.

                    TERRANCE
          You'd punch each other?

A beat.

                    JUNIOR
          You ever punch someone?

                    TERRANCE
          I can't say I have.

Junior smiles at Terrance.
                                                                 54


                         HEN
               I guess that's what being a man is,
               right?

                         JUNIOR
               I'm just having a conversation.

     Terrance is watching them intently.

                         HEN
               Would you do your test of manhood
               with me?

                         JUNIOR
               Now you're being dumb.

                         HEN
               You're scared of hitting me?

                         JUNIOR
               I'm scared of hurting you.

     Hen notices Terrance smirking at them. She suddenly reaches
     across and slaps Terrance hard.

                         TERRANCE
               Fuck.

     She picks up her glass, sips her wine, fighting back her
     emotion. Junior is stunned. A moment later, Hen starts
     laughing. Then, she laughs a little harder, until Terrance
     begins to laugh. Junior isn't laughing. Hen's laughter,
     slowly turns dark, emotional, as she catches Junior's stare.

                         HEN
                   (directly to Junior)
               Just once, I want to say `I love
               you, you mean everything to me'...
               like I used to.

53                                                                53
     INT. LIVING ROOM - MIDDLE OF NIGHT

     The living room is deathly still. Junior is in his recliner,
     a pillow propped under his arm, to support his shoulder. His
     eyes gaze across the dark room.

     On the far side, two identical beetles crawl up the wall.
     Their dark shapes are hypnotic.

     Then, he hears movement above him. Hen's voice? Junior gets
     up to investigate.

54                                                                54
     INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY/GUEST ROOM - NIGHT

     Junior rounds the top of the stairs and realizes someone is
     having a shower.
                                                         55


He discovers the guest room door, directly adjacent, is
slightly ajar, with the lights on inside. He moves over to
it.

He carefully peeks through the gap. There is an array of
technological hardware. A strange black rod with a camera,
sits on a stand, and there's tape on the floor, marking out
positions? Something on the disheveled bed catches his eye.
He moves into the room. Beside a duffle bag lays a photo of
Hen, wearing the white cut-off shirt.

                    TERRANCE
          You can't sleep either?

Junior, suddenly caught off guard, turns. Terrance sits in
the blind corner, shirtless, a bath towel around his waist. A
small fan tries to keep him cool. He's lean, more muscular
than Junior thought.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          There's always room to make us more
          efficient. Eating, talking,
          sleeping - what if we didn't need
          to do any of it.

Junior, isn't up for conversation.

                    JUNIOR
          What's all this stuff.

                    TERRANCE
          I'm getting set up for our
          interviews.

                    JUNIOR
          Seems overkill.

Junior hears the shower water still running, looks at
Terrance, at the bath towel around him. This all feels wrong.
He moves to the door. Terrance stands up.

                    TERRANCE
              (Whispering)
          Can I ask you something?

                    JUNIOR
          What?

                    TERRANCE
              (Whispering)
          If Henrietta was the same as she is
          now, I mean identical, but was a
          bit less physically attractive in
          one significant way, do you think
          you would have married her?

A beat.
                                                              56


                         JUNIOR
                   (Caught off guard)
               She's my wife.

                         TERRANCE
                   (Whispering)
               Are you saying her appearance
               doesn't mean anything to you?

                         JUNIOR
               I'm saying, no matter what, to me,
               she would still be Hen.

                          TERRANCE
                    (Whispering)
               What about this: what if she looked
               exactly as you know her, just as
               beautiful, but was a bit less
               intelligent? Would she still be
               Hen?

                         JUNIOR
               This is stupid. Hen is Hen.

                         TERRANCE
                   (softens)
               You're right. I'm sorry.
               I shouldn't be keeping you up.
               We have a big day ahead of us.

     Junior moves away from Terrance, who gently closes his door
     with a click.

     Junior walks up to the bathroom and rests his ear against the
     door. He slowly tries to open it. It's locked. He
     contemplates knocking, but instead decides to leave it.

55                                                                55
     INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNING

     Junior is in his reclined chair. He opens his eyes, in the
     reflected hot light.

     He notices Hen in utter stillness, wearing her work outfit,
     draped in the arm chair opposite. She takes a long drag of a
     cigarette.

     Junior watches her for some time, until Hen notices. They
     hold each others stare. Then she sits up, dropping her
     cigarette in an empty beer bottle. Beside the bottle, he
     notices a glass of water and two white pills. She brings them
     over to him.

     He takes the pills, and as she removes the empty glass and
     places it back down on the table, he holds her arm, pulls her
     close. He starts to kiss her neck.
                                                              57


                         HEN
                   (softly)
               I've got to go.

     He is hungry for her. He feels her body. She slowly
     surrenders and it instantly becomes heated.

                          HEN (CONT'D)
                   (softly)
               He's here.

     But it's hopeless, they descend into each other. It's
     thrilling, passionate, but especially quiet.

56                                                             56
     INT. JUNIOR'S TRUCK - DAY

     Junior and Terrance are in Junior's truck. They've left the
     farm and are driving along the highway fast. Junior's truck
     is old, so he still has to drive it, but with his injury, is
     only using one arm.

                         TERRANCE
               So, you can do this right? Drive
               with one arm. It's safe?

     Junior looks at him and smiles. For the first time, he
     notices a slight vulnerability in Terrance. Junior
     accelerates for fun.

                         TERRANCE (CONT'D)
               It seems so stupid to us now, that
               a human would be controlling a
               massive hunk of metal moving at
               sixty miles an hour.

     Terrance looks out at the passing fields, filming
     momentarily.

                         JUNIOR
               Nothing stays the same for long
               anymore.

     A strange silence falls over them. Terrance starts to sing to
     himself.

                         TERRANCE
               I have dreamed a dream - of every
               common man - hoping to rise to the
               top - I have sworn by my blood as
               your man, my love - That one day-

                         JUNIOR
               -I don't care what you're planning,
               but whatever you bring here, won't
               be me. I can't be replaced.

     Terrance smiles.
                                                                  58


                          TERRANCE
                There's nothing wrong with a
                growing self-confidence.

                          JUNIOR
                Just make sure, for your own sake,
                it never hurts Hen.

      Terrance looks at Junior.

                          TERRANCE
                Have you ever hurt her?

      Junior looks at him with a resolute stare.

                             TERRANCE (CONT'D)
                Could you?

      Junior contemplates, then suddenly steers the truck onto the
      rough road. The truck shudders and shakes. He accelerates
      faster.

                             TERRANCE (CONT'D)
                Fuck!

      Junior looks across at him with a disturbing seriousness.
      Terrance grips the door in fear. Junior bursts into laughter.

                                                        CUT TO:

      We see the truck, tiny, shooting haphazardly across the rough
      wasteland.

      Pre-lap: Short, punchy, sonorous sounds - someone blowing
      into a bottle, repeats.

57                                                                 57
      OMITTED

57A                                                               57A
      INT. CHICKEN FACTORY/VARIOUS- DAY

      Junior walks the long corridor, occasionally turning over his
      shoulder, amused by something. Terrance follows him with his
      camera, dressed just like him; hair net and blue overalls.

                                                        CUT TO:

      Junior works fast on the production line, shoving chicken
      carcasses onto the fast moving line. He motions to Terrance;
      his turn. Terrance gives it a go, but is unable to keep up.
      Junior revels in it, a fish out of water.

      The bottle sounds get faster and faster.
                                                                 59

58                                                                58
     INT. BATHROOM - AFTERNOON (LATER)

     Junior naked, sweating profusely, at the peak of a set of
     squats. It's intense, hypnotic.

                                                          CUT:

     Junior in the shower, every drop blissful. He blows into his
     empty beer bottle, making the sounds we have been hearing. He
     does it over and over until the staccato rhythm gets so fast,
     it becomes one long sustained note. He holds that note until
     there is no air left in his lungs.

                         TERRANCE (V.O.)
               I'm glad the pills are working on
               your shoulder...you do seem lively.

59                                                                59
     INT. GUEST ROOM - DUSK

     Junior sits on a small chair facing the wall. Terrance is
     sitting behind him, looking at the back of Junior. A camera
     on a tripod is also pointed at Junior. It's oppressively hot.

                         JUNIOR
               I do feel energized, like I've had
               too much coffee.

                         TERRANCE
               Interesting.

     Terrance is struck by his openness and moves over to Junior.

     Terrance holds something, and it flashes in Junior's eye.
     Junior blinks.

                         TERRANCE (CONT'D)
               That's good. Corneal reflex test.

     Junior rubs his eye.

                         TERRANCE (CONT'D)
               I'm afraid you'll have to get used
               to these tests. There'll be more
               when you arrive. Some less pleasant
               than others.

     Terrance takes hold of Junior's hand, which shows a slight
     tremor, and delicately spreads his fingers. We reveal he is
     holding a syringe with a very long, thin needle.

                         TERRANCE (CONT'D)
               Deep tendon carpal tunnel reflex
               test.

     A close-up of the needle.
                                                         60


Before Junior can protest, Terrance inserts the needle point
between the webbing of Junior's fingers.

                    JUNIOR
          Fuck!

                    TERRANCE
          Sorry, it's done.

Terrance puts the needle away and walks around behind Junior.
Junior is sweating noticeably.

They both hear creaks on the staircase. Hen appears at the
door. Terrance and Junior both turn to look at her.

                    JUNIOR
              (To Hen)
          You're done at work already?

Hen is struck by the oddness of the interview set-up.

                    HEN
          I left early.
              (to Terrance)
          Why is he facing the wall?

                    TERRANCE
              (Sharply)
          Hen, you can't be here.

Hen starts to walk over to Junior, but Terrance intervenes.

                    HEN
          I think he's had enough.

                    TERRANCE
          Hen, we agreed.

Hen stares at Terrance, slowly submits.

                    HEN
              (to Junior)
          I'll be downstairs.

She leaves.

                    JUNIOR
              (to Terrance)
          What the fuck was that?

                    TERRANCE
          We really have to make sure she's
          okay. If you notice anything
          unusual, or she is acting odd, it's
          best you tell me-

                    JUNIOR
          Tell you what?
                                                           61


                    TERRANCE
              (direct)
          Face the wall, please.

Terrance walks over just behind Junior, he's rattled.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          I'm helping you and your wife,
          in a profound way that you'll
          appreciate when you're back. I need
          to know everything, and everything
          you tell me up here is
          confidential. Between us.

Terrance pauses, realizing Junior isn't listening. He is
staring at the floor with concern, drawn by the sound of
Hen's piano below. There is anger in it.
Terrance watches him for a moment.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          Have you ever cheated on her?

Junior looks up.

                      JUNIOR
          What?

                      TERRANCE
          On Hen?

                    JUNIOR
          No, definitely not.

                    TERRANCE
          You've never fantasized about
          another woman?

                    JUNIOR
          I don't know. No, I...

                      TERRANCE
          C'mon.

Hen's music now has pain in it. Junior wants to go to her,
but Terrance persists.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          Has she ever cheated on you?

                      JUNIOR
          Fuck you!

                      TERRANCE
          Has she?

                      JUNIOR
          NO.
                                                              62


                         TERRANCE
               You're not basing that on trust,
               are you?

                         JUNIOR
               I'm basing it on what I know.

                         TERRANCE
               Do you feel that you know how she
               would react in every situation?
               Have you ever asked her the
               question yourself?

                         JUNIOR
               Hen's not like that.

                         TERRANCE
               You don't actually believe you know
               Hen better than she knows herself?

     Junior starts to rock, and rub his forehead.

                         JUNIOR
               I'm not saying that.

                         TERRANCE
               There are things about her you
               don't know, will never know,
               thoughts, feelings. All her years
               before you.

     Junior stands. Terrance gently touches Junior's hand, seeking
     his eyes. Junior pulls his hand away.

                         TERRANCE (CONT'D)
               She has desires that existed before
               you, and exist beyond you. You can
               accept that, right?

     Junior walks out, leaving Terrance alone. Terrance stares at
     his hand, then to the floor.

60                                                             60
     INT. BASEMENT - EVENING CONT.

     Hen's music vents discontent. Junior feeling unsure, sits
     gently beside her. His head slowly deflates into the curve of
     her neck.

                         HEN
               I suppose you want me to stop?

                         JUNIOR
               No?

                         HEN
               You usually don't like it. You used
               to tell me not to play.
                                                              63


                          JUNIOR
               Sorry?

                          HEN
               Are you?

     Junior thinks about it. Hen plays harder.

                         HEN (CONT'D)
               As long as we moved from day to
               day, living the routine that was
               established, that you established,
               you're convinced I'm happy.

     Junior sits up.

                         HEN (CONT'D)
               Walking the same path as all of
               them before me.

     Hen plays the keys repeatably to make her point.

                         HEN (CONT'D)
               Your mom, my mom, their moms and
               their moms and their moms...

     She notices Junior's confusion, then smiles. With one hand
     she gently pulls his head back into her neck. The music
     slows, softens.

                         HEN (CONT'D)
               I'm starting to worry. What if the
               rain never comes?

                         JUNIOR
               I don't want you to worry.

                          HEN
               I know.

     A small melody flourishes.

                         JUNIOR
               It's beautiful....

     Nothing more is said. They both float off with the melody,
     with the many questions that murmur in the depths.

     Music continues...

61                                                                61
     INT. LIVING ROOM / NIGHT

     A black beetle scurries from the corner, up the wall onto the
     ceiling. Here it joins even more beetles, all moving
     hypnotically, in random formation.

     Junior lies in the recliner staring up at them, sweating in
                                                                 64


      the oppressive heat. Hen's music still carries him deep.

      The music echoes, expands, a dream comes over him...

                          HEN (O.S.)
                Hurry. Over there. Can you see?

      The sound of wind.


61A                                                              61A
      OMITTED

61B                                                              61B
      EXT. ISLAND IN NOTHINGNESS - CONT.

      We float high over a truly magical landscape. Pink and white
      water never-ends, a small island, sits in the centre,
      miraculous.

                          HEN (O.S.)
                It was here.

                                                        CUT TO:

      Junior on the island, wanders across it, like he is on
      another planet. He is clearly unsure, timid. Hen is standing
      by a tree, near the waters edge. Hen is thrilled to see him,
      smiles at his awkward pause.

                          HEN (CONT'D)
                There you are. Look. It's so
                exciting.

      Junior closes in, swept up in her animated joy. She pulls him
      closer to the tree, and picks something off the ground at her
      feet.

                          HEN (CONT'D)
                We missed it. It's gone. That's
                okay. That's good.

      She holds up a single feather. Soft, delicate, colorful.

                          JUNIOR
                What's it from? What sort of bird?

                          HEN
                I don't know.

      She points to the horizon.

                          HEN (CONT'D)
                It went that way. It's green there.

      Junior can't see any green.

                           JUNIOR
                Green?
                                                               65


                         HEN
               All the shades. Absinthe.
               Aquamarine. Asparagus. Bamboo.
               Lime. There's moss, and algae, and
               green frogs...

     Then, from the corner of his eye, he sees another Hen(2),
     identical, only a short distance away. He moves over to her.

                         HEN(2) (CONT'D)
               There's no green.

     Closer, he notices this Hen is in distress. This Hen is not
     holding any feather.

                         JUNIOR
               Little Hen?

                         HEN(2)
               My mom used to tell me what it felt
               like to get stung by a bee, when
               there were flowers and bees still
               around.

     Hen smiles at him, love in it, but a scary resignation.

                         HEN(2) (CONT'D)
               I always wished I could feel that
               for myself.

     Hen moves over and reaches up to touch him, but her hand hits
     glass. Fear fills her.

                         JUNIOR
               Hen. Hen. I...

     Then, the sound of birds. We hear the other Hen, the first
     one we met.

                         HEN (O.S.)
               Olive. Cucumber. Dill. Teal. Frozen
               mint. Green Apple. Pea. Leek.
               Peppermint...

                                                       CUT TO:

     This Hen has been watching them; a tear of rejection falls
     from her eyes. She looks back up to the sound of birds,
     thousands, building in numbers...

                         HEN (CONT'D)
               There's rain there, it's breaking
               down the forest floor - and you can
               smell everything!


62                                                                62
     OMITTED
                                                                 66

63                                                                63
     INT. LIVING ROOM / ENTRANCE HALLWAY - LATE MORNING

     An empty hallway, only the echoes of Hen's voice from the
     dream. Junior enters, having just woken. He listens for any
     sign of someone home.

                             JUNIOR
                Hen?

     Nothing.

     But then the faint, haunting sound of voices upstairs.

                          TERRANCE (V.O.)
                ...it is illegal... so why all the
                chickens?


64                                                                64
     OMITTED

65                                                                65
     INT. GUEST ROOM - DAY

     Junior curiously enters, noticing Terrance's bed is made
     meticulously. He then hears HEN's voice again, coming from
     under the bed.

                          HEN (V.O.)
                Having other living things around
                does something. Keeps you hopeful,
                I think.

     He looks under and finds the bag he saw the other night, on
     top a small RECORDING DEVICE is playing.

                          HEN (V.O.)
                    (A beat)
                I really miss the trees.

     He picks it up. On a very basic analogue screen sees; `Hen 1
     / -2 / -3*' etc. His breath deepens.

                             TERRANCE (V.O.)
                The trees?

                          HEN(V.O.)
                More of them were alive when I was
                growing up.

     He presses stop. He opens the bag quickly. Inside he finds a
     large number of photos of Hen. Some he recognizes, others he
     can't.

     Some are close-ups of her hair, her hands, her feet, her
     ears. He sits there holding the photos, disturbed, unsure
     what to make of it.

     He presses play, joggles back.
                                                                 67


                         HEN(V.O.)
               More of them were alive when I was
               growing up.

     Junior imagines Hen. We cut to see HEN being interviewed, in
     the same room he sits - at night, candlelit. Hen's eyes light
     up with a child-like warmth.

                         HEN
               Some were shy, some bold, others
               ancient, wise...you only have to
               spend time with them...I loved
               their personalities.

     Terrance smiles, amused.

                         TERRANCE
               Personalities?

                         HEN
               People do. Dogs do. Cats do. Why
               draw a line with trees.

     We cut back to Junior listening, he smiles as he hears these
     words. Hearing Hen so free, so herself.

                         TERRANCE (V.O.)
               That's a bit of a stretch.

                         HEN (V.O.)
               It's sad you need proof before
               something is real.

     He leans against the bed, taking in the room, imagining. Then
     something grabs his eye. Under the built-in desk, in a blind
     spot, he sees a small patterned cloth shoved in what looks
     like a small hole in the wall.

                         TERRANCE (V.O.)
               Belief is deceptive.

     He curiously pulls it out revealing a hole... He puts his
     finger into the hole, it goes deep.

     Cut back to HEN and TERRANCE from the interview.

                         HEN
               No. It's a feeling. To have it is
               exhilarating.

     Terrance smiles, momentarily intrigued.

66                                                                66
     INT. BATHROOM - DAY

     Junior is in the bathroom. He crouches down near the shared
     wall to the guest room. There are three drill holes, where a
     toilet roll holder must have been in the past.
                                                               68


      He picks at ONE of the holes, and it clears. He blows into
      the hole and looks through. To both his alarm and surprise,
      he can see into the guest room perfectly.

66A                                                            66A
      EXT. PORCH - EARLY AFTERNOON - IMAGINING INTERVIEW

      Hen sits on the porch in the apricot light, a forest of dead
      trees stretch behind her. Terrance takes in her every nuance.

                          HEN
                Does knowing someone take something
                away?
                    (a beat)
                Part of me says, `yes'. To be like
                primal, animal, to not question
                anything...that's exciting,
                impulsive. But then comes a
                knowing, which is also beautiful
                and we need it, but it makes
                everything safe and
                understood...and over time...

                          TERRANCE
                Have you become more self-
                conscious? When you're with him
                now.

67                                                              67
      INT. BEDROOM - EARLY AFTERNOON

      Bathed in the same Apricot light, he looks into the mirror.
      He peels off his bandage, and to his surprise, there is no
      scar. Not even a tiny mark.

                          HEN (O.S.)
                No.
                    (shy irony)
                Maybe it was better when I was...
                    (tape ends - a beep)

      He looks down to Hen's side of the bed, tired and confused.
      He notices the indent of where she had laid on the pillow and
      then gently falls into it. He lies there on his side, the
      audio player beside him. He breaths in her scent and falls
      asleep.


      We move in close on his face.

      The pre-lap of piano notes.

      A gentle hand touches Junior's cheek; the touch is soft and
      affectionate.

      It's Terrance's hand.
                                                              69


     Junior starts to wake up. His eyes barely opening. The hand
     starts to hold his face firmer, waking Junior more
     aggressively.

     The piano louder, fuller.

     Then, Terrance's fingers start to squeeze harder...and
     harder. Pushing Junior's cheeks together, until Junior is
     fully awake, in pain, eyes wide open, terrified, trying to
     scream. The flurried shadows of SUITED MEN move in his
     periphery.

68                                                                68
     INT. BASEMENT - LATE DUSK

     Hen, sweats profusely, and surges into the keys, playing a
     deep, raw melody, surrendering to its movement. Her arms,
     skin, and shoulders glisten. She then stops, allowing another
     haunted, silent lull to fill the house. She takes a mouthful
     of her wine, then starts to tease the keys again.

69                                                                69
     INT. BEDROOM - LATE DUSK

     We cut back to Junior, but he is surprisingly asleep. There
     is no sign of Terrance, no hand squeezing his face.

     Junior awakens to the music, confused and disorientated. He
     sits up on the side of the bed, composing himself, running a
     hand through his hair.

70                                                                70
     INT. LIVING ROOM - BASEMENT STAIRS - LATE DUSK

     The camera floats behind Junior, drawn by the music. As he
     corners to the basement stairs, he sees Terrance. He is
     already sitting near the bottom step, where Junior sat
     before, listening to Hen. A glass of wine sits beside him,
     the smoke from his joint hangs in the air.

     Terrance turns, surprised to see Junior. Junior takes a few
     steps down and sits. Despite Junior's piercing stare,
     Terrance smiles, careful not to make any noise.

                         TERRANCE
               (silently mouths)
               Beautiful...

     Terrance offers a drag, Junior declines, with an unwavering
     stare. Terrance turns back. They both sit in silence, caught
     by Hen's unusually raw and powerful melody.

71                                                                71
     INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT LATER

     Gil Scott Heron, `I'm New Here' plays; Terrance hits every
     word in sync, to the delight of a drunken Hen.
                                                         70


                    TERRANCE
          But I'm new here
          Will you show me around
          No matter how far wrong you've gone
          You can always turn around
          Met a woman in a bar
          Told her I was hard to get to know
          And near impossible to forget
          She said I had an ego on me
          The size of Texas
          Well I'm new here and I forget
          Does that mean big or small
          Turnaround, turnaround, turnaround

Junior is watching them, neurotically, drinking more beer.
Terrance and Hen alive in the streets of Gil Scott Heron.

                                                   LATER:

Psychedelic, Ethiopian jazz plays. Hen is up dancing. With
Terrance. He is a good dancer, it's city-strange meets
Charleston. Hen laughs hysterically. He's not used to seeing
Hen so daring and alive. He grabs her hips and gyrates
playfully, but something deep in Hen surfaces.


She then pulls Junior up to join her. Terrance slumps on the
sofa and watches on. Junior moves in close to Hen, so
Terrance can't hear.

                    JUNIOR
          Do you like dancing with him?

                    HEN
          I like dancing with you.

                    JUNIOR
          You prefer talking to him then?

                    HEN
          He's interesting.

Junior is frustrated.

                    JUNIOR
          Do you think he's funny?

                    HEN
              (to Terrance)
          Terrance, tell us a joke.

                    TERRANCE
          And the Lord said unto John
          `Come forth and you will receive
          eternal life'. But John came fifth,
          and won a toaster.
                                                               71


                          HEN
                    (laughing)
                Toaster?

      Junior resolute, pulls her arm tightly. Gets in close to her
      ear.

                          JUNIOR
                I don't want you two talking alone
                anymore.

      Hen looks up at him, confused, like he is someone else, but
      she someone she recognizes. Tears of hurt brew in her eyes,
      anger even.

                          HEN
                Don't ruin it.

      She rests her head on his shoulders, closes her eyes. Junior
      eventually relents, holds her close, and for a moment forgets
      Terrance is even there. As they both turn, Junior sees
      Terrance gazing but not at him. Hen now has her eyes open,
      and is gazing back at Terrance.

71A                                                            71A
      INT. LOUNGE/VARIOUS - NIGHT, LATER

      Hen refills her glass, and wanders the downstairs alone. Her
      favourite music track plays loud. She sings and moves
      defiantly...but something deep down is pulling her.

72                                                              72
      INT. GUEST ROOM - NIGHT, LATER

      Junior is sitting in the sweltering heat, sweating, his face
      is looking drawn, haggard, his eyes baggy. Terrance is
      standing beside him. Both are shirtless.

                          TERRANCE
                Hold your arms up, like this.

                          JUNIOR
                You've been drinking.

      Junior reluctantly and warily lifts his arms. Junior watches
      Terrance like a hawk, as he presses a sensor into Junior's
      armpit.

                          TERRANCE
                Is there something bothering you?
                    (a beat)
                I can feel it in you.

                          JUNIOR
                It's more like an awakening.

      Junior wipes some sweat off his forehead, he looks terrible,
      bags under his eyes.
                                                         72


                    TERRANCE
          Ok. And how has this `awakening'
          affected Hen? I'm sensing a bit of
          strain there, perhaps?

Junior shifts in his seat, agitated.

                    JUNIOR
          You're always wondering how things
          are between us. It's sick.

                    TERRANCE
          I don't mind being wrong about
          that. Just curious.

                    JUNIOR
          Why are you asking me this?

Terrance takes hold of his arm before Junior can protest, and
fastens a metal bracelet around Junior's wrist.

                    JUNIOR (CONT'D)
          Stop. What's this? What are you
          doing?

                    TERRANCE
          It's to help moderate your
          hydration levels.

Junior looks at it, turning his wrist around; the metal cold
and shiny. Terrance swiftly moves back to their conversation.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          Does she tell you what she likes?

                    JUNIOR
          What's that?

                    TERRANCE
          Your wife, Junior. Is she open and
          honest with her preferences?

Junior is growing noticeably more twitchy, tense, and
irritated by the line of questioning.

                    JUNIOR
          About what?

                    TERRANCE
          Oh, come on. You know. Fucking. Is
          she explicit with what she likes?
          What she needs.

                    JUNIOR
              (Angered)
          What did you say?
                                                         73


                    TERRANCE
          Every relationship depends on open
          and honest communication.

                      JUNIOR
          Fuck you.

Junior is about to stand up, when Terrance puts a hand on his
shoulder.

                    TERRANCE
          Relax. It's just a conversation.

Junior lifts his chair and turns around, slips back causally
on the chair, observing Terrance with a disturbing hatred.

                    JUNIOR
          You like playing with us, don't
          you.

                    TERRANCE
          People fascinate me. You two
          fascinate me.

Terrance smiles. Junior looks back with a growing disgust.

                    JUNIOR
          People fascinate me too.

                      TERRANCE
          Really?

                    JUNIOR
          I watch people sometimes. See
          things.

                    TERRANCE
          What do you see?

                    JUNIOR
          The guys in the lunchroom bite
          hunks of their sandwiches, meat and
          bread, and grind it together into
          some disgusting paste. Whatever
          wasn't swallowed would end up stuck
          between yellow teeth and infected
          gums.

Junior stares at Terrance, at every detail of him; his hands,
his feet, his eyes. The room becomes a vacuum of silence.

                    JUNIOR (CONT'D)
          It's not just eating. I've seen a
          coworker fall asleep during a break
          with his mouth gaping open. I felt
          sick at the sight of it. Think
          about earwax, and fingernails, and
          pus.
                    (MORE)
                                                                 74
                         JUNIOR (CONT'D)
               I've seen guys spit on the ground
               and walk away. And we do all this
               stuff automatically, without
               thinking about it. We're oblivious
               to it most of the time. And one
               day, I started to wonder why that
               is, as I watched one of the guys
               wipe his fucking mouth on his
               napkin after eating and then blow
               his nose into the same napkin,
               which he balled up and dropped onto
               his plate, full of fucking snot,
               and very slowly, the napkin started
               to unfold from the ball, all on its
               own, as if it wanted to be seen,
               and that's when I realized our
               common seam, in each of us, is our
               own built-in scum. Our dirt. Our
               grease.

     Junior worked up, wipes his own sweat off his forehead,
     flinging it off his hand, and takes a breath. Despite the
     extreme hatred, Terrance simply sits back and smiles.

     Junior snaps up and kicks the chair, then starts furiously
     punching holes in the walls. We stay on Terrance as Junior
     terrorizes the room.

     Terrance stands, adrenalized. He notices Hen's shadow under
     the door. He leans against the door, stopping her from coming
     in.

                         HEN
               What the hell is going on?

                         TERRANCE
               Everything is fine, Hen!

     Clearly, it isn't. We see blood on the wall from Junior's
     fists. Terrance tries to stay calm, but a growing sadness
     takes over him.

                         HEN
               Fucking let me in!

73                                                                73
     INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

     Junior is in the shower, the jet of water washes over his
     head and face. He is unraveling and upset, trying to
     understand what just happened, trying to remove the bracelet,
     violently pulling at it. His knuckles are bleeding.
                                                                 75


                         JUNIOR
                   (Mumbling)
               Hen, Hen, Hen, what's a boat
               without an anchor - what's a boat
               without an anchor -

                                                        CUT TO:

     Silence, an unhinged serenity. Junior, naked, staring in the
     mirror; shivering.

     Then, in the mirror's reflection, we see Hen, approaching
     slowly, visibly shocked by the state he is in.

                         JUNIOR (CONT'D)
                   (whispers)
               Little Hen.

     Junior's breath deepens, he reaches out to touch her, as she
     too reaches for him, but suddenly his hand hits glass.

                         HEN
                   (whispers)
               Here, it's me.

     Junior turns to the real Hen, barely hanging on.

                         JUNIOR
                   (Flatly)
               I was taking a shower.

     She strokes his face, he starts to cry uncontrollably. Hen
     moves in quickly and holds his face.

     Junior looks to Hen, then holds her tight. Junior's breath
     quickens. She starts kissing him. It's primal, hungry.

     Hen undresses.

     Passionate and animalistic love.

     Time disappears...

74                                                                74
     INT. BEDROOM - PRE-DAWN

     They lie in bed together, cocooned in stillness.

     Junior leans in and kisses her. It's tender. They part, we
     stay intimate on their faces.

                         JUNIOR
               You're everything.

     Hen's breath deepens. Junior's face fills with a quiet joy
     and affection.
                                                                 76


                         JUNIOR (CONT'D)
               When I get back. Let's do
               something. Run off. Go somewhere.
               Make a family...

     Hen slowly shifts, tears build in her eyes.

     She smiles through tears. Then something dark comes over her.

     Junior takes pause.

                         JUNIOR (CONT'D)
                   (whispers)
               Whatever we decide to do, we'll
               decide together. We'll be together.
               Like we used to be.

     She's shocked to hear him say this. She closes her eyes.
     Junior puts his arms over her, holds her tight, through
     whatever this is...

75                                                                75
     EXT. FARM/FIELDS - SUNRISE

     Hen, in her work uniform, looks worse for wear as she walks
     towards Junior's truck and gets inside. Terrance is already
     inside, casually dressed. Terrance can sense her unease, that
     she's not in a mood to talk.

                         TERRANCE
               How are you feeling about tonight?

     Hen looks at Terrance and nods, then starts the truck.

                         TERRANCE (CONT'D)
               I wish there was more time to give.
               For both of us.

     They drive away from the house, just as the sun is starting
     to come up.

76                                                                76
     INT. GUEST ROOM - LATE MORNING CONT.

     Junior is staring out the window at them until they're gone.

                                                      CUT TO:

     He then starts to wipe the blood from the wall with a wet
     cloth. The wall is littered in holes and bloodstains. He
     squeezes it out into a bucket.

77                                                                77
     EXT. HEN'S TREE - AFTERNOON

     Junior buckets the bloody water around the base of the tree.
                                                              77


     He then sits under it. A gentle wind moves through the
     leaves. He imagines them together;

     Hen is walking amongst the dead trees as Terrance follows,
     carrying his camera. Terrance takes her photo. Hen looks
     back, coy. Hens face gently trembles, blushes.

     Junior knuckles still bruised and red raw, grip the coffee
     cup. The pain slowly brings his mind back to the world around
     him.

     Then, in the far distance, he sees the tiniest silhouette of
     a man in a BLACK suit staring at him by a dead tree. Junior
     stares back curiously at first; is he imagining? Like a
     dream, he keeps staring, then it dawns on him...

     He moves inside, pretending all is normal.

     The sound of a piano key, sparse, repeating throughout next
     scenes...

78                                                                78
     INT. HOUSE - AFTERNOON CONTINUOUS

     He quickly grabs the shotgun from the cabinet, then shuffles
     in the drawers, finding the box of bullets. He loads it,
     storms back outside.

79                                                                79
     EXT. FIELD - AFTERNOON

     He marches into the fields, calm, determined to rid all this.
     He aims at the silhouette and fires, hitting the tree. The
     dark figure begins to run. Junior walks faster, re-aims, and
     fires.

     The piano melody repeats...

     As he gets to the rise, he sees more distant figures,
     dispersing, a BLACK passenger drone flies off. He fires the
     gun over and over. Reloading, firing, reloading, firing...
     until there is no more threat, no more bullets, only a
     wounded pride due to his invaded privacy. Tears build in his
     eyes.

                         JUNIOR
                   (Screams)
               Fucking Cowards!

     Suddenly Junior is ambushed, pushed to the ground by a man
     whose face we don't see. The man leaps on top of him. They
     struggle. Junior manages to push him off, and punch him, but
     the man lands a brutal elbow to Junior's head, which drops
     him.

     As Junior lies on the ground, trying to recover from the
     blow, we see a close-up of the man's hands hastily clipping a
     few strands of hair from Junior's head.
                                                                78


     It takes Junior another moment to compose himself. He spits
     blood. By the time he collects the rifle and rises to one
     knee, he realizes the man is gone.

80                                                                80
     OMITTED

81                                                                81
     OMITTED

82                                                                82
     EXT. FIELD NEAR HOUSE - HOURS LATER - NIGHT

     Junior looks exhausted, forlorn, wild. He squats amongst the
     weeds of the field, completely absorbed by the dark. A tiny
     light within the sensor on the back of this neck is flashing,
     slowly.

     The headlights   of Junior's truck slowly enter the property.
     Junior watches   it pull up, but his gaze shifts, keeping a
     careful eye on   something else...a red light flickers in the
     far tree-line,   as someone smokes.

     Hen and Terrance walk up onto the porch. They are briefly met
     by MEN IN SUITS, they converse momentarily, before stepping
     inside the house.

     Junior sneaks towards the house, noticeably weaker. A
     passenger drone drifts in the darkened sky.

83                                                                83
     INT. STAIRCASE - NIGHT

     Junior quietly makes his way upstairs, careful not to make
     any noise.

                         HEN (O.S.)
               Maybe it's what was in the music
               that scared him.

                         TERRANCE (O.S.)
               What was in it?

                         HEN (O.S.)
                   (emotional)
               All that's gone.

                           TERRANCE (O.S.)
               Gone?

84                                                                84
     INT. BATHROOM/GUEST ROOM - NIGHT

     Junior brings his face silently up to the hole, and looks
     through into the guest room. From here, he can just make out
     Hen's face in profile, which is lit by candles on the table.
     Terrance sits closely across from her. They are listening to
     the RECORDING DEVICE.
                                                            79


                     HEN (RECORDING DEVICE)
          Affection. Possibility. Curiosity.
          That's the big one for me.
          Curiosity.
              (a beat)
          Maybe I shouldn't be telling you
          all this.

                    TERRANCE (RECORDING DEVICE)
          Hen, this is your chance...to honor
          all those parts in yourself...

                                                GUEST ROOM:

Terrance clicks off the recording device, and looks up to
Hen, who is silenced by what she just heard.

She takes a breath then looks up to Terrance.

                    HEN
          I've always held this fantasy. That
          there's something else out there
          for me.

                                                  BATHROOM:

Junior's breath deepens, his face twitches. The light falls
on his quivering eye.

                    TERRANCE (O.S.)
          What do you think it would take?

                      HEN (O.S.)
          To leave?

                      TERRANCE (O.S.)
          Yes.

                                                GUEST ROOM:

                    HEN
          Courage. The courage to let
          everything go. To follow what I
          feel. Not being scared.

                    TERRANCE
          Where would you go?

A beat.

                    HEN
          There are places. Places with life.
          With other people, new people. With
          music...somewhere that doesn't feel
          like it's dying.

                                                  BATHROOM:
                                                                 80


     Junior watching it all, descends into shock.

                                                     GUEST ROOM:

                         HEN (CONT'D)
               And instead of trying to explain it
               to him, or to justify it, I would
               do the opposite. I would leave a
               letter. But it would be blank.

                         TERRANCE
               So nothing at all?

                         HEN
               It would say nothing and everything
               at the same time.

     Terrance sits in silence. Hen takes an emotional breath.

                                                      BATHROOM:

     Junior's world falls away. He leans over the toilet bowl,
     silently dry retching.

85                                                                 85
     INT. GUEST ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

     Junior walks through the door, unsteadily, just as Terrance
     is comforting Hen.

                         HEN
               Junior?

     Junior sees that there are tears in her eyes. He turns to
     Terrance, hurt in his eyes, unnerving aggression.

                         JUNIOR
               You lying piece of shit.

                         TERRANCE
               We're going to clarify everything.

                         JUNIOR
               It's pretty fucking obvious.

                         TERRANCE
               So tell me.

                         JUNIOR
               This is over. And You're leaving.
               Now.

     Hen moves to the corner of the room, uneasy. Junior
     unsteadily walks over to Hen.

                         JUNIOR (CONT'D)
               And you're going to talk to me.
               Properly...no more bullshit.
                                                              81


                         TERRANCE
               What do you think is going on?

                         JUNIOR
               NO. NO MORE QUESTIONS. Hen, this
               has to stop.

     Junior sways slightly, eyeing them both.

                         JUNIOR (CONT'D)
               You want my wife, don't you. Keep
               her company while I'm gone. How
               fucking convenient. You're sick.
               SICK.

     Junior takes a step forward but is too tired. He leans
     against the wall. Looks at Terrance.

                         JUNIOR (CONT'D)
                   (laughs under breath)
               Fucking replacement.

                         HEN
                   (Standing - quietly)
               Junior...it's not what-

                            JUNIOR
               Sssshhh...

     He lunges over to Hen and embraces her. She is scared, but
     holds him. They start to waltz.

                         HEN (O.S.)
                   (whispers to Terrance)
               Do something.

     Junior looks up into her eyes, thinking she is whispering to
     him. He smiles, then starts to hum the melody from their
     wedding.

     He then slumps onto the floor, unconscious. Blackness.

                                                      FADE TO:

86                                                                86
     INT. BEDROOM - DAY - ONE WEEK LATER

     The camera floats from the landing into the bedroom, towards
     Hen. Having just showered, she sits staring at the mirror.
     The sun is harsh, raw. We float in closer. She takes a pair
     of scissors to her hair, and starts to cut. The cut hair
     falls over her bare chest and shoulders, like pine needles on
     a forest floor.

                                                     DISSOLVE:
                                                                 82

87                                                                87
     INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

     Hen up close, her eyes closed. It's dark, surreal. The sound
     of a Passenger Drone.

     A moving light from the window momentarily washes through,
     revealing she is seated in the kitchen, wearing a pretty
     floral dress, and now a new haircut - a stylish bob.

     She slowly opens her eyes, sensing, recognizing someone.

     She stands, then gently moves across the room, towards them.

     It's Junior(JR), fresh and cleanly shaven, but approaching
     with a subtle limp, a desperation. A weary relief fills his
     eyes.

                         JUNIOR[JR]
                   (through breath)
               Little Hen...

     They embrace. Kiss. Hen strokes his face, looks at him.
     Junior's(JR) head sinks into her chest, holding her tight.
     They rest against the dining table, in a silent, womblike
     embrace.

     Terrance, wearing a suit and tie, slowly enters the room.
     Behind him, we glimpse other people in suits (FORMAL PEOPLE),
     respectfully staring back, moved by the reunion.

     Terrance's hand comes to rest on Junior's(JR) shoulder,
     gently breaking their embrace. Junior(JR) lifts his head.

                         HEN
               It's time...

                           JUNIOR[JR]
                     (to Terrance)
               Ok.

     Junior(JR) looks back to Hen.

                         JUNIOR[JR] (CONT'D)
                   (to Hen)
               Come with me?

     Hen shakes her head with trepidation, not ready to partake.

     Terrance and Junior(JR) leave the room. As they do, we see
     more of the kitchen. In the neighboring doorways, we notice
     more FORMAL PEOPLE lingering. We hear the crackle of com's,
     indecipherable communication.

     Hen becomes increasingly nauseated, as she watches them
     leave, into a strange pink light.
                                                              83

88                                                                88
     INT. KITCHEN/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

     We stay close on Junior(JR) as he enters the living room,
     flanked by Terrance. Outside, there are floodlights coming in
     the windows, trucks parked, silhouettes walking. We sweep
     past a stack of computers, whirring.

     The furniture has been removed. Several cameras on tripods
     sit around the room, pointing away from Junior(JR), towards
     something that suddenly stuns him.

     Sitting on the floor, he sees a complete replica of himself,
     identical in every way, bar the rough stubble and facial
     hair. An intense, pale pink light fills his face. He blinks
     several times, attempting to focus. He can only make out
     abstract silhouettes. A miniature CAMERA DRONE hovers around
     him, lights flashing.

                            JUNIOR
                      (On floor)
               Hen?

                         TERRANCE
               I'm sorry. I know you're confused.

     The Junior(JR) beside Terrance is drawn closer.

                         JUNIOR[JR]
               Holy shit. It's so fucking real.

     The gaze, from Junior on the ground, sharpens suddenly,
     trying to comprehend what he just heard. He attempts to lift
     his head, but it's heavy and requires effort. He tries to
     move his arm and realizes there are metal bracelets on his
     wrists, with wires pulling them down. As he struggles against
     them, we not only notice his damaged knuckles, but the wires
     are looped from the wrists down to ankle bracelets. He can
     now see, and starts to take in the room.

                         TERRANCE
                   (to Junior on floor)
               I know how you must be feeling, but
               I need you to stay calm.

     He isn't listening to Terrance, but is now staring at his
     PERFECT double, standing before him. He can't believe what
     he's seeing. He's both captivated and mortified.

                         JUNIOR
                   (Junior on floor)
               No... No...

                         TERRANCE
               I'm sorry we had to deceive you,
               but it was the only way to test
               your full capacity and function.
                         (MORE)
                                                         84
                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          It's critical that you were lucid
          enough to experience the reversal
          face to face.

The two Juniors look at each other.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          He's not the replacement, Junior.
          It's you. This is Hen's real
          husband.

                    JUNIOR
              (Junior on floor)
          No, no, no. That's bullshit!
              (a beat)
          Where is she?
              (a beat)
          Hen! Hen!

                    TERRANCE
          She's safe, in the house...

                    JUNIOR
              (Junior on floor)
          Hen! Don't listen to him. Don't
          worry. I'm not going to let them do
          anything to you. I'm not going
          anywhere.

Hen slowly paces in the kitchen. She raises her hands to her
face, sick with emotion, barely able to listen.

                    TERRANCE
          We brought you here on my first
          visit, the same day, he, Junior
          (the one standing beside him), left
          to live on the Installation. That
          was the day your mission started.
          When our headlights turned you on.
          That was the beginning. We left the
          rest up to you.

                    JUNIOR
              (Junior on floor)
          You're lying.

                    TERRANCE
          We wanted your present tense to be
          your focus, but we also had to
          design your memories. We gave them
          to you after spending many months
          talking with Junior before he left.
          Your memories are his.

                    JUNIOR
              (shouts into the house)
          Hen, tell him he's lying!
                                                           85


Hen looks up, exasperated, torn...

                    JUNIOR (O.S.) (CONT'D)
              (Junior on floor)
          Hen, I need to know you're Ok!

...then moves towards the doorway and stops, directly in
Junior's view, but he hasn't noticed her yet. Her face
ethereal in the soft pink light.

                    JUNIOR (O.S.) (CONT'D)
              (getting desperate)
          I need to hear your voice!

Hen is shocked to see the state of him. Tears build in her
eyes, flooded with grief.

The Junior on the floor, spots her standing at the edge of
the room, relief rushes through him; he takes some breaths, a
smile, but then uncontrollable tears.

Hen moves over to Junior, kneels on the floor. She tries to
ease the bracelets on his bleeding wrists. Junior(JR) watches
her.

                    HEN
              (intimate)
          I'm here. It's ok.

                    JUNIOR
              (intimate)
          Please. Whatever this is, whatever
          you've done, it doesn't matter.

Hen pulls at the bracelets angrily.

                       HEN
          Why!

Then his hand grips hers. She leans in, he whispers something
we can't hear. She then whispers back.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
              (whispers)
          Me too.

The moment catches her quick, she looks over to her husband
Junior(JR), who stares back numb and confused.

                    JUNIOR (O.S.)
              (Junior on floor)
          Hen. You need to get away from
          here.

                       HEN
                 (whispers)
          No.
                                                         86


Terrance is studying their exchange. Hen eyes Terrance, then
slowly stands, realizing she is on display.

The Junior on the floor, then stares back at Junior(JR). A
strange and beguiling intensity brews between them; hatred,
vulnerability, empathy, sadness, desperation...

                    JUNIOR
              (on floor)
          You can't leave it with her...she
          doesn't want it.

Terrance whispers something to one of the other men, who then
walks over and stands closer to Junior. They start to unpack
a large case.

                    HEN
              (watching the men)
          You don't need to do this. Not
          this.

                    TERRANCE
              (to Junior on floor)
          Can you tell me what you're feeling
          now, Junior? Physically, I mean.

Junior exasperated by his cruelty, starts to laugh... a laugh
becoming guttural, deep, full of pain. Terrance isn't looking
at Junior anymore, rather only at Hen, at the magnitude of
her emotions and her complexity. Hen becomes aware of his
gaze, but also the gaze of the room.

                    HEN
              (to Junior)
          Don't listen to him.

                    TERRANCE
          She's been a part of this the whole
          time-

                    HEN
          -I NEVER wanted this. Never.

                    JUNIOR
          Hen? What's happening?

All eyes are on Hen. Words she needs to say, a truth too
devastating to tell. She stares at Terrance with an intensity
we haven't seen.

Two men walk towards Hen. They try to calmly escort her from
the room, but they are met with fierce defense. She falls
down to the ground, and anchors onto Junior.

                    HEN
              NO!
                                                                  87


      They grab her arms, she pushes them away, a struggle ensues.
      Junior tries to defend Hen, too, but his wrists remain
      helplessly tied.

                          JUNIOR
                    Get the fuck off her!

      More FORMAL PEOPLE enter and gather in the room, to watch on.
      She surveys their staring faces, as she struggles violently.

                          HEN
                    Shame! Shame on all of
                     you.

      Hen starts screaming, as the men manage to pull her away into
      the hallway, then outside...

88B                                                               88B
      EXT. HOUSE/FIELD - NIGHT CONTINUOUS

      Hen is feral, raging, but soon too exhausted to fight. They
      gently rest her on the ground. They step back. She starts to
      breakdown. She then gets up and runs, but they block her. She
      falls back down to her knees.

89                                                                 89
      OMITTED

90                                                                 90
      INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT CONTINUOUS

      Four men, wearing tight, disposable gloves, walk up to
      Junior. They kneel next to Junior and start to remove his
      bracelets.

      Junior's head falls with exhaustion. A moment of silence; a
      moment of helplessness now that Hen is not here. He stares at
      his freed wrists, watching the blood move slowly down his
      arm.

      Junior is injected in the back of the neck with a large
      needle.

      The other Junior(JR) is in shock, he too stares at it, a
      strange empathy floods him.

91                                                                 91
      OMITTED

92                                                                 92
      INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT CONTINUOUS

      The men, on either side of Junior, lift him and slide a large
      translucent sheet under him.

      Terrance bends down to get close to Junior's face, as the men
      start cutting off his clothes.
                                                                88


                         TERRANCE
               They're going to be writing about
               you for years.

                         JUNIOR
               This is MY life. This is OUR life!
               Together.

     The FORMAL PEOPLE surround Junior in a quiet awe, getting a
     closer look.

                         JUNIOR (CONT'D)
                   (mumbles)
               Hen, we'll go somewhere else...not
               everywhere is dying.

     The other Junior(JR), slowly retreats and sits on a chair in
     the back of the room - glimpsing the other Junior through the
     slow flurry of silhouettes.

     Terrance sits calmly, a voyeur, observing them both very
     closely.

                         JUNIOR (CONT'D)
                   (Screams)

93                                                               93
     EXT. HOUSE/FIELD - NIGHT CONTINUOUS

     Hen is now sitting on the ground. She has lost one shoe, her
     bare foot pushes into the soil. Her hands scrape at the
     earth.

94                                                               94
     INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT CONTINUOUS

     Junior squirms and sinks flat to the floor on his side.

     The men start cutting off the rest of his clothes, stripping
     him down.

     The men are rubbing a clear gel over him.

                         JUNIOR
                   (Undecipherable mumbling)

     Junior now appears frozen. Except for his eyes which are
     still alive, alert, moving around the room.

                         TERRANCE
               There were other possibilities for
               how this part would go, but we
               decided it made the most sense for
               you to be made aware, to see the
               end for yourself.
                                                                        89


      The men then lift a section of plastic over Junior, who is
      now naked in the fetal position. They run a small heat sealer
      around its edges, effectively sealing him in.

      Junior is trying to say something, but we can't hear him.

      Then, a vacuum-like device instantly sucks all the air from
      the bag in a violent rush. Junior is embalmed and doesn't
      move. Like a womb, we see Junior faintly through the plastic.

      Silence falls over everything.

      Then his eyes lock onto something. We push in...

      Cut to a VISION; the camera floats like an effortless spirit,
      moving through the most lush, virginal forest. In amongst
      those trees...the ancient, the bold, the timid.

      Time disappears...

      A single tear leaks from Junior's eye.

      Terrance sits in complete stillness, watching him, wondering
      what's in his mind. A few final breaths, a twitch of his
      index finger, and he is gone.

      The people in the room erupt in applause. Before Junior(JR)
      can emotionally recover, he is pulled up by Terrance and
      given a celebratory hug. Then Terrance turns, embraced by all
      his colleagues gathering around him, tears of pride well up
      in his eyes. Drinks get passed around. Terrance sips his
      champagne, with the thought of Hen out there, the same
      thought consuming Junior (JR).

95                                                                        95
      EXT. HOUSE/FIELD - NIGHT CONTINUOUS

      The sounds of celebration fall over Hen. Consumed by
      unimaginable loss, consumed by the darkness of guilt. Their
      house in the far background, lit up in pink.
      Note: for clarity going forward, we will use JR to represent the real
      Junior, BUT he is still referred to and known as Junior.


96                                                                        96
      OMITTED

96A                                                                     96A
      OMITTED

97                                                                        97
      INT. BATH - LATER THAT MORNING

      Hen tenderly aids a naked Junior into the bath. His muscles
      and joints are weak from years in space.
                                                                90


                          JR.
                    (under breath)
                Fuck this gravity shit.

      He finally sits in the water, breathes out with relief.

      Hen takes off her dress.

98                                                                 98
      INT. BEDROOM - MORNING CONTINUOUS

      Hen and JR sit naked on the edge of their bed...

      JR reaches across, touches her back carefully, then slides
      his hand to her breast. He holds it. Feels it. Needs it.

      Hen looks at him, just a hollow shell. JR's hand drops away,
      regret in his eyes. Then Hen starts to cry uncontrollably.

      For a moment, she wants JR to be Junior. Just for a moment he
      is. She embraces him, they lie down. Hen moves on top.

      JR squirms, disturbed by her growing passion. He pushes her
      off him firmly.

      Then they just lie there. Hen groans with grief.

99                                                                 99
      OMITTED

100                                                             100
      INT. GUEST ROOM - AFTERNOON

      JR curiously surveys the room, with what is now haunting
      patched holes across the walls. Confused, he stands and looks
      around the room.

      In the corner is a swept-up pile of plaster and rubble.
      Something catches his eye; a picture of Hen in the white T-
      Shirt from all those years ago. He picks it up and stares at
      it.

      Hen's smiling face engulfs him. Through the window, we see
      the outside landscape begin to move, to spin. His hands
      tremble, his breath deepens. He leans against the wall with
      one arm. His breath gets more erratic, remembering;

      Through a window of a space craft, we see EARTH rush past.
      Then it rushes through again. Not unlike the chicken towers,
      we look up from inside the massive cylindrical cabin, with
      hundreds of people strapped in, row upon row, on the outer
      walls. The top has a clear opening with light streaming in,
      we see the space-station. We are on JR as the cabin spins
      faster and faster to match the rotation to that of the main
      space-station, docking procedure... JR sweats, unable to
      cope. Claustrophobia. Vertigo. Nausea. Swirling, over and
      over...
                                                                  91


       JR is overwhelmed. Not only riddled with the trauma of space,
       but the state of his marriage. He grips the wall with deep
       desperation, the outside landscape, and his life spins out of
       control.

100A                                                              100A
       EXT. DEAD TREE - DUSK

       Hen lays on the ground, held in a woven embrace with the
       large sweeping root of a dead tree.

101                                                               101
       INT. ROADSIDE RESTAURANT - DAY

       Hen exits the   kitchen, two plates of deep-fried flounder on
       her arms. She   crosses the floor to deliver the meals, but as
       she does, she   notices Terrance sitting alone at a table on
       the far side.   She slows, shocked to see him. Terrance looks
       up at her and   smiles, takes a sip of his water.

       She places the meals on the customer's table, and cautiously
       wanders over to Terrance.

                           HEN
                 Why are you here?

                           TERRANCE
                 To see you.

       Terrance gazes at Hen, long enough to expose a vulnerability
       in both of them.

                           TERRANCE (CONT'D)
                 I want to know how things are
                 going. At home. Now that Junior's
                 back.

                           HEN
                 Why do you care?

                           TERRANCE
                 I care because I like you, and I
                 consider you a colleague.

                           HEN
                 I'm not your colleague. I'm not
                 like you. Not in any way. And now I
                 feel stupid.

                           TERRANCE
                 You shouldn't feel stupid. You did
                 so well.

                           HEN
                 No, I do.
                      (a beat)
                 You made it sound so exciting, with
                           (MORE)
                                                     92
                    HEN (CONT'D)
          all that big talk...and I told you
          things. Private things. I actually
          thought you cared. No. All you
          needed was me, wasn't it? Just a
          farmer's wife on the edge to prey
          on...

                    TERRANCE
          What YOU did...was essential. It
          was historic. It was beautiful.

                     HEN
          Beautiful?
              (sotto)
          What WE did can never be forgiven.
          It was cruel. It was...meaningless.

This stings Terrance.

                    TERRANCE
          Stop feeling guilty for being part
          of advancement. It's our duty as
          intelligent people to transcend
          boundaries, not yield to them.

                    HEN
          Our duty is to be human and to
          live.

                    TERRANCE
          Don't you have questions about how
          this has changed you?

                    HEN
          Yes, I have many questions. But
          they aren't the same as yours.

                    TERRANCE
          I'm a Creator. Creators make the
          future possible. Your future
          possible.

                    HEN
          Your arrogance is disgusting.

Terrance smiles, but is hurt.

                    TERRANCE
          It's a shame you're feeling so
          much...regret.

                    HEN
          I'm feeling a responsibility.

Terrance leans forward, more intimate, vulnerable.
                                                           93


                    TERRANCE
              (whispers)
          There's so much we could share.

Hen goes to stand up, but Terrance gently grabs her arm.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          Sit down, please, let me explain
          something to you-

Hen pulls her arm free.

                    HEN
          No. I never have to listen or talk
          to you again.

Terrance breathes, stares back at her.

                    TERRANCE
          That's fine. Just know that I spent
          years with Junior before he left.
          And we've talked a lot about you. I
          know everything I need to know.

Terrance leans in, more intimate.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          Hen, I know what he needs. And I'm
          not sure you can give that to him
          now.

Hen looks straight at Terrance.

                    HEN
          No. You must never do this again.

                    TERRANCE
          I am doing this for you.

Terrance becomes suddenly calm, reaches into Hen's eyes with
a disconcerting warmth.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          I can make it easier on him, if you
          ever do make that decision-

                      HEN
          Decision?

                    TERRANCE
          To leave. Or is that still a
          fantasy?

Hen lets that sit for a moment, angry tears brew, then she
leans forward, intimate, fearless, calm.
                                                                   94


                            HEN
                  You know, the only thing I truly
                  believe, and it's our biggest flaw.

                            TERRANCE
                  What?

        Hen stands up, looking down at Terrance.

                            HEN
                  Believing we understand things we
                  can't ever possibly understand.

        Terrance watches Hen turn and walk off across the floor. She
        passes a table and gathers empty plates, like she has a
        million times before.

A101A                                                             A101A
        OMITTED

101A                                                               101A
        OMITTED

102                                                                102
        INT. KITCHEN/FARMHOUSE - NIGHT

        Hen opens two beers, passes one to JR sitting at the table.
        Hen then moves to the counter and finishes serving up dinner
        onto old porcelain plates. She places them on the table and
        sits down, they start to eat.

        They swig their beers, chew their food, all amidst this
        awkward silence. Hen is watching JR. He rarely looks back,
        but he notices her unease.

                            HEN
                  They say looking back at Earth
                  changes you.
                      (a beat)
                  Did it?

        JR says nothing.

                            HEN (CONT'D)
                  Has anything changed for you?

        JR looks up directly at her with heavy, resentful eyes.

                            JR.
                  Why?

        Hen stiffens.

                            JR
                  I was hoping for loyalty. Trust.

                            HEN
                  How can you say that?
                                                        95


                    JR
          You're my fucking wife.

                    HEN
          It's not like that-

                    JR
          -oh, then what was it then?

                    HEN
          I saw you, Junior, in him. I did.

                    JR.
          You saw me...in it?

Hen looks up again, making eye contact.

                    HEN
          Yes. I saw who I fell in love with.
          Then I saw the parts you never show
          me.

                    JR.
          You're fucking crazy.

                    HEN
          The parts you've lost Junior. What
          we've lost.

JR sits back, stung, then smiles through tears at her
bluntness.

                    JR.
          It wasn't me, Hen. It wasn't REAL.

                    HEN
          This IS real. What I'm feeling is
          real.

                    JR.
          I know what I am. What we need.

                    HEN
          And what is that?
              (JR doesn't answer)
          To take each other for granted?
              (a beat)
          To stay like this? To stand still?
              (a beat)
          For what? Junior, there's nothing
          here for us. Let's just leave, get
          out of here. Do something,
          together.

JR darkens, then points to the window.
                                                          96


                    JR.
          My family is out there. Buried in
          the ground. And I won't do it to
          them. No. I won't throw it away, to
          go off on a wander, to prove what?
          This farm, this house, this life -
          WE made it. It's US. We should be
          proud.
              (a beat)
          There's nothing out there for you.
          I know that now. I just need you
          right here, where we are.

                    HEN
          Right here, where I've always been.

JR just sits there, says nothing. Hen stares at him a while,
then gets up, thinking. She takes their plates to the sink.
She puts them in but just stands there, looking down at them.
She doesn't rinse them as she usually would.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          What does it mean if you can't risk
          something with me?

Hen looks up from the plates, right at JR.

JR looks away, then down toward the floor. He can't answer
her, or doesn't want to.

Then, in the severe silence, they hear something...very
gently at first, then growing, the sound of rain drops on the
roof. It builds. It takes a moment for both of them to
actually register, believe it. Hen turns and looks at JR,
amazed.

She moves through the house. The rain now pelting down,
echoing loudly.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          Junior?

JR slowly trails Hen, and as he corners onto the porch, he
sees Hen run out into the rain, laughing, letting it drench
her. JR reluctantly holds back, afraid almost, the noise and
movement of the rain affecting him.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          It's beautiful!

Hen turns back to JR, beaming with a child-like jubilance,
then leaps up and pulls JR into the rain.

                    HEN (CONT'D)
          C'mon.
                                                                  97

103                                                               103
      EXT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT

      As she supports and aids him out, she can't help but kiss
      him, and joyously embrace him. She screams into the rain. JR
      suddenly slips, and they both go over. They end up in a huge
      muddy puddle, Hen laughs it off.

                          HEN
                Shit, sorry.

      Hen holds his hand, leans over, and kisses him some more, but
      JR starts shivering. He sits up, embarrassed, ashamed, then
      attempts to stand up.

      Hen places her hands under his arms to help.

                          JR.
                I don't need your help.

      She ignores him, drunk with laughter.

                          JR. (CONT'D)
                Don't!

      JR shrugs her off. Hen, shocked by his venom, just stands
      there, muddy, forlorn. JR stares back with disdain.

                          JR. (CONT'D)
                    (under breath)
                Look at you.

      Hen is struck with a sudden, painful, clarity. JR breaks
      away, back to the house, leaving Hen alone in the rain and
      wind.

104                                                               104
      INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT

      Hen, completely drenched and muddy, sits at the piano. We
      can't tell what are tears and what is rainwater.

      She doesn't hesitate, and starts playing the piano. Her wet
      face shines in the dark with defiance. It quickly becomes the
      most fearless, and emotionally powerful melody yet.

      She suddenly stands, looks around the room, finds a shovel
      leaning against the wall. She picks it up, holds it for a
      moment, then swings the shovel against the piano, over and
      over, smashing the old keys to pieces.

105                                                               105
      INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

      Hen, a motionless, muddy figure, moves under the shower. The
      water rushes over her body. She stares at her feet.

      She has removed the plug. This time the mud and water run
      down the drain...
                                                                  98

106                                                               106
      INT. HOUSE/KITCHEN - MORNING

      We follow JR as he walks through the empty house towards the
      kitchen.

      He enters. Hen has made a pot of coffee.

                             JR.
                       (Calling out)
                Hen?

      He pours himself a cup and leans against the counter, waiting
      for her to reply. She doesn't.

      He takes a sip and that's when an envelope on the counter
      catches his eye.

      It has `Junior' written on the front. He puts his cup down
      and picks up the envelope. He opens it and removes a letter.
      It's a single page. He turns it around and over. He looks at
      both sides. He's clearly confused.

      The letter is BLANK.

107                                                               107
      EXT. CORPORATE CHICKEN TOWERS/TOWER - DAY

      High above the landscape, we float toward a chicken tower. We
      creep over the lip; inside, within the raking sunlight, we
      see a stationary lift.

108                                                               108
      INT. CORPORATE CHICKEN TOWERS/TOWER - CONTINUOUS

      In the lift   stands JR. He presses a button, that releases the
      lift into a   gentle descent. He remains motionless, lost in
      thought, as   the endless layers of chickens pass by fast. The
      dreamy free   fall is like a moving watercolor.

109                                                               109
      INT.CORPORATE CHICKEN TOWERS/LUNCH ROOM - LUNCH

      Macro shots only; mouths chewing, dirty hands against bread,
      sweat, laughing yellow teeth. Some younger guys punch each-
      other in the guts - `test of manhood'. It's rowdy,
      boisterous. JR sits amongst it, observing, his hand grips the
      blank note.

110                                                               110
      INT. ROADSIDE RESTAURANT - LATE AFTERNOON

      We follow JR as he enters into the restaurant. He looks
      around for Hen, without a care, without asking anyone. But
      she is nowhere to be seen.

      He barges into the kitchen, into the back rooms, a waiter
      tails him.
                                                                  99

111                                                               111
      EXT. ROADSIDE RESTAURANT - LATE AFTERNOON

      He exits out the back, across the open carpark, bangs
      hopelessly on a string of motel rooms. Staff begin to gather
      around him, but keep their distance. Junior's a storm to be
      reckoned with.

112                                                               112
      INT. FARMHOUSE - GROUND FLOOR - MORNING

      Silence. The haunted emptiness of the house.

      We hear the front door open, Terrance slowly enters, a bottle
      of wine in hand.

                          TERRANCE
                Hello?

      He listens to see if anyone is home.

      He then makes his way into the living room and sits down on
      the couch. A nostalgia takes over him.

113                                                               113
      INT. BASEMENT - LATER

      Terrance enters the basement. He places the wine on top of
      the smashed piano. He lifts the upturned chair and sits. His
      fingers slowly survey the damaged keys. He runs them along
      the keys, broken notes leak out. Then, tentatively, he plays
      a small toothless melody, the same one Hen played before she
      smashed the piano.

      Terrance turns. Junior is standing there, having just woken.

      Terrance stands. He looks different somehow, less secure,
      tired.

                           TERRANCE
                I'm sorry.
                    (a beat)
                I was just passing by. Wanted to
                say goodbye. See how you were both
                settling in.

                          JR.
                We're fine.

      A beat.

                          TERRANCE
                Is Hen around?

                          JR.
                On a shift.
                                                          100


                    TERRANCE
          I was hoping to see her before I
          left. How's she doing?

                    JR.
          She's fine.

An awkward silence.

                    TERRANCE
          Can I ask you something?

                       JR.
          Sure.

                    TERRANCE
          I know it's weird, but humor me for
          a minute.

                       JR.
          What?

                    TERRANCE
          Could you close your eyes?

JR is losing patience.

                       JR.
          Seriously?

                       TERRANCE
          Please.

JR hesitates a moment, then submits, closing his eyes.
Terrance steps close and without a word, does the same,
closing his eyes.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          Ok, take a moment. Now, tell me
          what you see?

It takes JR a moment to settle his mind.

                    TERRANCE (CONT'D)
          I mean, really, what do you see.

Something within JR scares him. His eyes dart open. To his
surprise, he see's Terrance with his eyes closed.

                    JR
          I want to be alone.

Hearing JR speak, Terrance immediately opens his eyes, filled
with their own hurt.
                                                                 101


                          TERRANCE
                You have such self-assurance. You
                don't have to prove anything to
                anybody. I envy it.

      Terrance reaches forward and rubs JR's arm. He smiles.

                          TERRANCE (CONT'D)
                Junior. You should feel proud, for
                what you did.

      JR doesn't respond. Terrance passes him the Chardonnay.

                          TERRANCE (CONT'D)
                I know how much she loves it.

      JR looks at the bottle, as Terrance slowly walks up the
      stairs.

114                                                               114
      INT. BARN - AFTERNOON

      Chickens peck the ground, as JR tosses another handful of
      grain to them.

      He stares, watching them. He then zeroes in on the brown
      chicken, watching its every move.

115                                                               115
      EXT. FARM - LATE AFTERNOON

      He picks red berries from the forgotten shrub.

      Up close, we see JR rip wildflowers from the ground. Various
      types and colors; pink, yellow, white, blue... one after the
      other.

      Then, up close, we see JR rip the feathers off the dead brown
      chicken.

116                                                               116
      INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

      Insect murmurations vibrate hypnotically. JR is sitting in
      his chair, alone.

      The wildflowers are on the table, a small plate with the
      berries, and two places already set for dinner. It's
      unsettling in its overt attempt at hospitality.

      He just sits there, in a `real' silence. Alone, never
      touching his food.

      He pours the last of the Chardonnay, then with his fingers,
      picks at the edges of the blank note Hen left him.

      He looks out the window. He notices his reflection, staring
      back. A disturbed smile surfaces. He turns away from it.
                                                               102


      Anguish floods him.

                             JR.
                       (screams)
                HEN!

      He then notices the wine in his glass beginning to lean
      unnaturally. Vertigo rising... The world outside starts to
      move, almost imperceptibly. He grips the table, his head
      falls.

      He closes his eyes. His breath lunges erratically.

      Then, a PALE GREEN LIGHT (the same light we saw in the
      opening) washes up over the ceiling and into the room.

      He opens his eyes, now filled with a raw, visceral pain. He
      notices the light. It hangs there, hypnotically, and before
      JR can make sense of it, a figure slowly moves into view,
      bathed in light, like an ethereal apparition. It's HENRIETTA.

      She is wearing the white cut-off shirt, her hair is
      different, slightly longer? JR doesn't notice, blinded by her
      beauty, shocked by her return.

      She sits, at the other end of the table, just as the PALE
      GREEN LIGHT fades away. Leaving them in the dark.

      JR is numb with shock. They just stare at each-other.
      Emotions run high for both, but not a word spoken. Henrietta
      looks down the table, and touches the small wildflowers,
      looking up at JR adoringly.

                             HENRIETTA
                So pretty.

      She takes the glass of wine and sips it, then looks down at
      her dinner, surprised. JR is overcome with emotion.

                          HENRIETTA (CONT'D)
                    (noticing JR)
                It's ok. I'm here.

117                                                               117
      INT. BEDROOM - DAY

      Bright hot sun hits their naked bodies. Henrietta takes his
      hand, and starts to kiss it. JR studies her, curious, struck
      by her renewed contentedness and devotion. She starts kissing
      his neck, and soon, the two of them weave freely.

118                                                               118
      EXT. FARM - SUNSET

      A huge, pink, burnt orange sun, just as it dips towards the
      horizon. The two of them lying out on the porch watching,
      beers in hand, luminous.
                                                        103


                    JR.
          It's funny. Having all that time
          looking down on this... so much to
          understand... Think about the
          canola fields, all the flowers and
          everything living in there. Think
          about the city and all the cars and
          stores and apartments. For all of
          it, for almost any object you can
          think of, there are too many...but
          there's only one of you.

JR stares across at Henrietta, curiously.

                    HENRIETTA
          What?

                    JR.
          You'll always be my anchor, my
          wife, my best friend, and the best
          cook I know...

Henrietta turns back to the sun, soaks in its beauty. She
smiles, but it lacks the pure wonder she used to hold.

                    JR. (CONT'D)
          Do you think you could be...happy?
          Here?

Henrietta interlocks her fingers in his.

                    HENRIETTA
              (still smiling)
          Of course. This is where I'm happy.
          Right here. With you.

She finishes off her beer, then leans in closer.

                    HENRIETTA (CONT'D)
          I'm so proud of you.

She lets her head rest against his shoulder.

                    HENRIETTA (CONT'D)
              (to JR)
          Refill?

                    JR.
          Sure.

JR slugs the rest of his beer. Henrietta takes his empty beer
and moves inside.

JR turns back to the soft glow, and surrenders, with a
newfound sense of relief, reconnecting with all around him;
the sounds, the sky, the gentle breeze in HEN's tree - a
familiar world that seems different now, but exactly as he
wants it - everything in its place.
                                                                 104


      As the night insects begin to scream, JR realizes Henrietta
      hasn't returned.

119                                                               119
      INT. KITCHEN - DUSK

      JR walks into the kitchen. He sees Henrietta standing
      perfectly still, looking into the sink. For a moment, he
      watches her, struck by her absolute stillness.

                           HENRIETTA
                 What are you doing here little one?

      Henrietta doesn't reply. She is transfixed...

                            JR.
                 Hen?

      Nothing.

      Finally, Henrietta reacts. She looks over at JR.

                           HENRIETTA
                 It's not moving at all. It's
                 just...sitting there.

                            JR.
                 What is?

      Henrietta turns back and leans closer into the sink. Beside
      the drain, is a large, ever familiar, Horned Beetle.

                           HENRIETTA
                 I've never seen one before.

      Henrietta walks to the fridge. She takes out a beer and hands
      it to JR. Perplexed, he takes a swig, as she walks out of the
      room.

      JR curiously walks over to the sink. He looks in, recoils at
      the sight of the Beetle.

      Henrietta has put music on in the lounge and it fills the
      house, it's their wedding song; ALTHOUGH THE SUN IS SHINING -
      FLEETWOOD MAC.

      JR pauses a moment, smiles, and takes another swig, then uses
      the bottom of the beer bottle to crush the beetle.

                           HENRIETTA (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                     (singing along as she
                      heads to porch)
                 Although the sun is shining, high
                 above...

      JR walks outside, but we stay on the beetle in macro. Its
      antennae slowly losing life...with the fading sounds of JR
      and Henrietta on the porch;
                                                                105


      their sporadic singalong, the insects, a gentle gust of wind.

      Song continues throughout next scenes...

                                                 LONG DISSOLVE:

120                                                              120
      EXT. 15,000FT - RURAL PLAINS - SUNSET/DUSK - CONTINUOUS

      We fly, breathtakingly high, over the great rural expanse.
      Below us, the alien, geometric patterns of mega-farms
      mesmerically sweep by. The golden sun slips on the horizon.
      The creep of dusk.

      The tiny shape of a sleek passenger plane glides in,
      reflecting the sun, a golden sparkle in a huge world.

121                                                              121
      INT. PASSENGER PLANE - SUNSET/DUSK - CONTINUOUS

      We move, through the cabin, passing passengers, stories, and
      lives we can only guess. Then, we corner into a row, and push
      up to the only person staring out the window. We get closer.
      It's unmistakable - it's Hen (the real one). Her beautiful
      spirit shines, and in those magnificent eyes...


      Wonder.


      Nostalgia.


      Fear.


      ...witnessing the last rays of sun - the ending of one life,
      the beginning of another, into the real unknown.


      She breathes.


      She breathes deeper.


      Pain.


      Hope.


      Love.

                             END




Foe
Writers :   Iain Reid  Garth Davis
Genres :   Thriller  Drama  Romance  Sci-Fi
User Comments








