




OPENING TITLE CARD



INSPIRED BY A TRUE STORY

                                                CUT TO:


INT. WRESTLING RING - NIGHT

A 1950's regional mid-west crowd of a few thousand roar
with fury as the abominable, heavy brow, buzz cut giant,
FRITZ VON ERICH (JACK ADKINSSON) pummels his OPPONENT.

FRITZ grunts angrily at the crowd in a bad German accent
and raises his giant, powerful right hand, making a rigid
CLAW with his fingers. FRITZ guides his hand down onto the
forehead of his wobbling OPPONENT and locks his thumb and
pinky into the man's temple, clutching the head in the palm
of his hand. The OPPONENT drops to his knees screaming in
pain.

Sitting in the crowd are FRITZ'S sons, KEVIN (7) and DAVID
(5). They are the only ones cheering on FRITZ. They turn
and yell at the other fans for booing their father.


INT. ARENA CONCOURSE - CONTINUOUS

DORIS, FRITZ'S heavily pregnant wife, paces in the empty
concourse.


INT. WRESTLING RING - CONTINUOUS

Back in the ring, blood drips from the OPPONENT'S head,
over FRITZ'S hand. The OPPONENT finally collapses onto his
back. The referee slaps down on the mat - ONE, TWO, THREE -
and signals for the bell. DING DING DING DING. The referee
raises FRITZ'S hand. The crowd boo the villain they love
to hate.

                   RING ANNOUNCER (O.S.)
         The winner, FRITZ VON ERICH.

                                           HARD CUT TO:
                THE IRON CLAW
TITLE CARD:


INT. DRESSING ROOM - LATER

A sweat drenched FRITZ sits alone on a wooden bench in a
grimy locker room. Wrestling might be staged but there is
nothing fake about the performance. These matches take a
massive physical toll.


INT. ARENA EXIT - LATER

FRITZ, showered and cleaned up is heading out. His family,
DORIS and the two BOYS, KEVIN and DAVID are waiting for
him. The boys run and leap onto him. FRITZ scoops up KEVIN.
DAVID hangs on FRITZ'S leg. FRITZ and DORIS kiss.

                   KEVIN
         You crushed that guy Pop.

                   FRITZ
         I sure did.

KEVIN puts a playful IRON CLAW on his dad.

                   FRITZ
         So nice to have you guys here for
         once. You see anything Dotty?

                   DORIS
         Not a chance. But it sounded like
         they were all very angry with you.

                   FRITZ
         That's the idea.

THE FAMILY walk across the cold icy parking lot.

                   DORIS
         What is that thing attached to our
         home?

                   FRITZ
         You guys like it?


EXT. PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS
A BRAND NEW CADILLAC is attached to an OLD MOBILE HOME.

                   KEVIN
         Oh Dad, it's incredible.

                   DAVID
         Yeah, incwedible.

KEVIN runs around the car. Little DAVID follows.

                   FRITZ
         I had the boys switch it out
         during the show. Surprise.

                   DORIS
         What are you thinking? We can't
         afford this.

                   FRITZ
         Well, hear me out, I was talking
         to the promoter and he said if I
         want to be a star I need to act
         like a star. So he told me to rent
         a Cadillac.

                   DORIS
         I'm not going to ask how much it
         costs.

They load the kids into the back seat. FRITZ gets in to the
driver seat.

                   DORIS
         How much does it cost?

She slaps him on the side of his arm.

                   FRITZ
         It's going to be fine Dotty. I'm
         almost there. We need a real
         house, a safe place to raise these
         guys.

KEVIN sits in the back listening to his parents.

                   DORIS (O.S.)
         How is blowing money on a fancy
         car going to get us a house -
                   FRITZ (O.S.)
         The only way to beat this thing
         that follows us -

                   DORIS (O.S.)
         There is no THING that follows us-

                   FRITZ (O.S.)
         The only way to beat IT is to be
         the toughest, the strongest, the
         most successful. The absolute
         best. To rely on no one but
         ourselves. I will get us there, I
         will be the NWA world heavyweight
         champion, and nothing will hurt us
         ever again.

DORIS closes her eyes.

                   DORIS
         Let the morning bring me word of
         your unfailing love, for I have
         put my trust in you. Show me the
         way I should go, for to you I
         entrust my life...

FRITZ watches adoringly as DORIS quotes the bible to
herself.

                   FRITZ
         We have been through hell and we
         are going to leave all that
         behind. I promise.


In the back seat, We are close on KEVIN, listening,
absorbing...

                                                CUT TO:


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - KEVIN'S ROOM - PRE DAWN

An ALARM SOUNDS like a ton of bricks waking KEVIN VON
ERICH, now in his 20s. Tall, lean, chiseled, athletic, with
a warm smile, and head of golden hair. He struggles to pull
himself out of bed, sore and stiff from last night's
wrestling match. His brother DAVID sleeps in the bed across
the room.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - MORNING

A recent FAMILY PORTRAIT hangs above the fire place. Next
to it a black and white photo from the 50's of their
deceased son, JACK JR, age 8.

On one living room wall is A LARGE TROPHY CASE filled with
the family's athletic accomplishments including FRITZ'
wrestling highlights and the boys' childhood sports
trophies. THIS FAMILY IS TEXAS ATHLETIC ROYALTY.

On the other wall is a GUN CASE, showing the impressive
collection of hand guns and hunting weapons.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH    - DAWN

The sun is about to rise on the fairy tale VON ERICH RANCH.
FRITZ' dream home just outside of Dallas, built with money
made from his wrestling fame and fortune. Acres of wild
land, woods for hunting, ponds for fishing, fields of
grazing cattle and horses. KEVIN emerges in the landscape
running, pushing himself into a full sprint.

                      KEVIN (V.O)
            Ever since I was a child people
            said my family was cursed. We
            never talked about it. And I don't
            know if my brothers and I believed
            it back then. But bad things kept
            happening. Mom tried to protect us
            with God, Pop tried to protect us
            with wrestling, he said if we were
            the toughest, the strongest, the
            most successful nothing would ever
            hurt us. I believed him. We all
            did. We loved our father and we
            loved wrestling.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM WRESTLING RING - NIGHT

A CAPACITY CROWD of 3000 adoring fans scream for their
local hero KEVIN. FRITZ, now in his 50s, is in KEVIN'S
corner.
Fierce boos ring out. THE SHEIK antagonizes the crowd. The
famous GENERAL SKANDOR AKBAR is in the SHEIK'S corner.

The SHEIK hits KEVIN over the head with his championship
belt, knocking KEVIN to the ground. The SHEIK spit polishes
his Texas Title and the crowd goes ballistic.

The BELL SOUNDS, the match begins. We are close up on
KEVIN, laying dazed on the mat.


INT. SPORTATORIUM WRESTLING RING - NIGHT

KEVIN, who wrestles barefoot, springs to his feet and
delivers a brutal kick to the side of THE SHEIK'S head.

We see how special KEVIN is for a young wrestler. Large,
quick, agile, and powerful - a lethal combination.

AKBAR climbs in the ring and tries to intervene but FRITZ
steps in and clothes lines him over the top rope.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - WEIGHT ROOM - EARLY MORNING

KEVIN lifts weights, pushing himself to his absolute limit
on the bench press.


INT. SPORTATORIUM WRESTLING RING - NIGHT

KEVIN climbs onto the top rope and leaps across the ring
with a flying cross body to take down, and pin THE SHEIK.
The ref pounds on the mat: 1, 2, 3... The Bell sounds. The
Sportatorium erupts. FRITZ rushes into the ring to
celebrate as KEVIN lifts the Texas Heavyweight title belt.

                   RING ANNOUNCER
         Ladies and Gentlemen, the winner,
         and new TEXAS HEAVYWEIGHT
         CHAMPION, Kevin Von Erich!

KEVIN is elated but exhausted. Struggling to catch his
breath, his father holds him up in the middle of the ring.

                   FRITZ
         You did well tonight son.

                   KEVIN
         Thanks Pop.

                   FRITZ
         This is just the start.

                   KEVIN
         Of course.

                   FRITZ
         Tomorrow you're back and working
         harder than ever.

                    KEVIN
         Yes sir.

                   FRITZ
         Proud of you.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - WEIGHT ROOM - EARLY MORNING

KEVIN finishes a set and lets out a guttural scream to push
out the final rep.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - KITCHEN / DINING ROOM - MORNING

DORIS, now in her 50s, cooks mountains of food for her
giant sons and husband. THE BROTHERS roam the kitchen
serving themselves before sitting to eat at the dining room
table.

DAVID (20s), though younger than KEVIN, is the BIGGEST
BROTHER. He only wears tighty whities as he scoops food
onto his plate.

                   DORIS
         Pants tomorrow please David. Thank
         you.

                   DAVID
         I couldn't find them Ma.

                   DORIS
         They're in the wash, heard of it?

MIKE, the youngest, is less athletic than his big brothers.
He survives this family with his sense of humor. He eats as
quickly as he can.
                   DORIS
         Michael, breathe. You eat like a
         starving mutt.

                   MIKE
              (Mouth full of food)
         If I don't eat quickly they take
         my food.

DAVID reaches over and steals a piece of MIKE's bacon as he
sits. MIKE slaps his hand away. Then KEVIN, straight up
from the gym, grabs a piece.

                   DORIS
         Manners. Please. Who raised you
         animals?

FRITZ is at the head of the table with a smile on his face,
basking in his family.

                   FRITZ
         Mike, you need to hit the weights
         more kid, start filling out.

KEVIN and DAVID hate these comments.

                   DAVID
         I'll always have your back Mikey.

                   FRITZ
         You won't always be around.

                   DAVID
         Mike's fine pop.

                   FRITZ
         Kid won't be able to defend
         himself being that scrawny.

                   MIKE
         Well, I might be scrawny but I can
         still eat the most.

                   FRITZ
         It's not a joke. Kerry is about to
         become the family's first
         Olympian. Kevin is the NWA Texas
         champion -
                   KEVIN
         Pop, come on.

                   FRITZ
         - David is about to make his ring
         debut. You need to start thinking
         about what you're going to be.
         Now we all know Kerry's my
         favorite, then Kev, then David
         then Mike, but that can always
         change. Everyone can work their
         way up or down.

FRITZ has a charming way of delivering this that makes it
an accepted part of the family dynamic.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - EARLY MORNING

THE BOYS do their SUNDAY MORNING RANCH CHORES. DAVID and
KEVIN stack hay. KEVIN looks out at MIKE who fixes a fence.
FRITZ is standing over him giving him a hard time.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - LATER

MIKE is waiting in line for the bathroom pounding on the
door.

                   MIKE
         Come on DAVID!! I've got to take a
         dump.

KEVIN passes by him in the hallway.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

DAVID is jerking off in the shower.

                   DAVID
         Stop talking man, give me a
         second.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - MASTER BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

DORIS is getting ready for church. KEVIN enters.
                   DORIS
         Good morning Kevin.

                   KEVIN
         Morning Ma. Hey I've been thinking
         about something. Can I talk to
         you?

                   DORIS
         Baby, that's what your brothers
         are for.

                   KEVIN
         I know but -

                   DORIS
         I need to keep getting ready.

                   KEVIN
         Dad's too tough on Mike Ma, you've
         got to talk to him -

                   DORIS
         That's between them. Now go get
         ready, we're leaving in fifteen
         minutes.


EXT. CHURCH - DAY

The CONGREGATION gather in front of the church.

EVERYONE congratulates KEVIN for his recent victory. People
try to meet FRITZ and welcome him to the CHURCH. As much as
he does not want to go to church, he is there for his wife,
there for his family. He is good at speaking with people in
his community. They congratulate him on the success of
WCCW, and the excitement of KERRY going to the Olympics.

DORIS is at the center of everything, she stands with the
PASTOR greeting people as they file into church.

FRITZ looks at the doorway and braces himself.


INT. CHURCH - MOMENTS LATER

FRITZ, DORIS, KEVIN, DAVID and MIKE sit together. KEVIN
watches his father look uncomfortable, swallowing his
pride. FRITZ looks straight up at the rafters, like he is
LOOKING UP TO GOD...

                                                CUT TO:


INT./EXT. KEVIN'S TRUCK - DAY

KEVIN and DAVID drive up to a small suburban house in a
cul-de-sac, the neighborhood is pure seventies Americana.

A HIGHSCHOOL PROG ROCK BAND practices in an open garage. We
see MIKE is the lead singer and guitar player. He is good,
passionate. His big brothers watch on proud, they clap as
the song finishes. MIKE says goodbye to his bandmates and
jumps in the truck.

                   KEVIN
         How was orchestra practice
         Michael?

                   MIKE
         It was good, thanks Mom... Man,
         I'm starving. Can we get a burger
         on the way?

                   KEVIN
         There's food in the cooler.

                   MIKE
         I miss Kerry, he'd eat a burger
         with me right now.

                   DAVID
         I'll eat a burger with you little
         brother.

                   MIKE
         Come on Kev.

                   KEVIN
         Alright, alright, but just drive
         through.


INT. KEVIN'S TRUCK - LATER

ECU: MIKE FLIPS THE CASSETTE.
KEVIN, DAVID and MIKE devour burgers as they drive, windows
down, music blaring.


EXT. RIVER - DAY

The BOYS fly into the river from an old rope swing. They
swim, happy together. OTHER PEOPLE float down the river on
inner tubes, drinking beer. A summer ritual.


INT. SPORTATORIUM - BACKSTAGE - LATER

KEVIN is dressed in tights and a sequined jacket with his
Texas heavyweight belt around his waist, looking ring
ready. He stands next to BILL MERCER in front of a cheap
backdrop.

                   BILL MERCER
         Welcome back ladies and gentlemen,
         I've got the newly crowned Texas
         heavyweight champion, Kevin Von
         Erich here and he is scheduled to
         fight in a tag team match later on
         tonight against Gino Hernandez and
         Bruiser Brody. But his partner is
         still a mystery.

                   KEVIN
         That's right Bill, first I want to
         say, Gino, you've been shooting
         your mouth off way way too long...

There is a slightly too long, awkward pause. KEVIN searches
for the words.

                   KEVIN
         And I'm here to take care of it.
         But boy oh boy, do I have a
         surprise for you tonight. Shall we
         try that again?

                   BILL MERCER
         Yep, from the top... Welcome back
         ladies and gentlemen, I've got the
         newly crowned Texas heavyweight
         champion Kevin Von Erich here and
         he is scheduled to fight in a tag
         team match later on tonight
         against Gino Hernandez and Bruiser
         Brody. But his partner is still a
         mystery.

BILL delivers his lines like a machine, perfect every time.
KEVIN'S delivery is a bit mechanical. He loses his charming
personality when he speaks into a microphone. This is
KEVIN'S one FLAW in the world of wrestling, and with the
emergence of the televised main event, it is a costly flaw.

The SOUND MAN walks in and adjusts a mic. THE CAMERA MAN
resets. We reveal DAVID, in street clothes, watching from
behind camera. He is trying not to laugh.


                   KEVIN
         That's right Bill, and I just want
         to say first that Gino has been
         shooting his mouth off way too
         much about me and my family, and
         tonight he's going to get it. It's
         not going to be all roses - Fuck.

KEVIN stalls again. The more he falters, the more nervous
he gets.

                   KEVIN
         David, I hear you. Stop.

                   DAVID
         I didn't say anything.

                   BILL MERCER
         It's ok. Let's go again. Welcome
         back ladies and gentlemen, I've
         got the newly crowned Texas
         heavyweight champion Kevin Von
         Erich here and he is scheduled to
         fight in a tag team match later on
         tonight against Gino Hernandez and
         Bruiser Brody. But his partner is
         still a mystery.

                   KEVIN
         That's right Bill, I've got a big
         surprise to bring out for our home
         crowd tonight...
              (Pause)
         Something that's going to make
         them all very very happy, but
         first I just want to say, that
         Gino, you've been shooting y-y-
         your mouth off, sh, sh, sh - god
         damn it!

                   DAVID
         Shooby dooby do.

                   KEVIN
         You come try it then if it's so
         easy.

                   DAVID
         Yeah, I mean, I'd love to but that
         will kind of ruin the surprise -

                   KEVIN
         I know it will you big bastard,
         you're not helping. Just get out
         of here.

DAVID loves to wind KEVIN up.


EXT. SPORTATORIUM - NIGHT

A truck speeds towards the glowing red light gleaming
"SPORTATORIUM." This is the first time we are seeing the
exterior of our arena, a large shed-like structure in the
shadow of the Dallas skyline. It doesn't look like much,
but this is wrestling Mecca... The Camera is in the back of
a pick up truck with a bunch of YOUNG PEOPLE. The parking
lot is packed. Excitement is in the air. The camera jumps
out of the car with a GUY who runs to the long ticket
window line. The camera moves off of him and finds a
CLUSTER OF FANS drinking, while others are trying to get
close to some WRESTLERS entering the back door. They fight
through the groping crowds to get inside.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - BACK STAGE - NIGHT

KEVIN and DAVID talk to two other wrestlers, BRUISER BRODY
& GINO HERNANDEZ, in their tights and robes, ready to go
on.
                   BRUISER BRODY
         I'll have you in an arm bar,
         really sell it. Spin out, give me
         a knee, body slam, elbow drop,
         I'll roll out, pick you up, shoot
         you to the corner, charge, you
         jump out and tag Kev.


                   KEVIN
         I'll go straight up on the top
         rope, don't give me too long -

                   GINO HERNANDEZ
         I'll come charging across the ring
         for the -

                   DAVID
         And then the double drop kick -

                   BRUISER BRODY
         Yep.

                   DAVID
         And then the claw.

                   GINO HERNANDEZ
         Can't wait. Your pop's been
         coaching you on that one?

                   DAVID
         A little bit.

                   BRUISER BRODY
         Welcome to the show.

They all pat DAVID on the back.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM RING    - MOMENTS LATER

Cut in mid-match as BRUISER BRODY gives DAVID a big boot to
the head. DAVID gets up and they exchange blows. The climax
plays out how they planned it backstage... DAVID and KEVIN
put a double drop kick on BRODY, knocking him out of the
ring. GINO gets up dazed and steps right into DAVID'S IRON
CLAW - DAVID grips his right hand around the temple of
GINO. GINO submits. The bell sounds. THE AUDIENCE IS
ELATED. DAVID is impressive and powerful on his debut.
                   BILL MERCER(O.S)
         And a kick out from Gino. David
         picks up Gino but he pushes him
         into the corner. Here comes Brody
         charging across the ring. He
         misses him, he misses him and
         comes all the way back over to the
         other side. Kevin's getting up on
         the top rope. He knocks down
         Brody. The brothers line up a
         double drop kick. Blowing the roof
         off of this place. Can you hear
         these people? And here comes the
         Iron Claw, his father's notorious
         signature move. Oh and he slaps it
         on Gino. Look at him. The pain is
         too much, Gino taps out. And the
         Von Erichs win. Look out NWA,
         David and Kevin Von Erich are
         here.

                   RING ANNOUNCER (O.S)
         And the winners, David and Kevin
         Von Erich!

FRITZ WATCHES ON FROM THE AISLE. HE SMILES, HE KNOW HE HAS
SOMETHING SPECIAL ON HIS HANDS.


INT./EXT. SPORTATORIUM - LATE NIGHT

KEVIN and DAVID exit the backstage door after a match. The
parking lot is mostly empty but for a few FANS. KEVIN signs
autographs, he loves connecting with the fans. As they get
away from the group, a young woman, PAM, approaches KEVIN.

                   PAM
         Hi Kevin, can I get your
         autograph?

                   KEVIN
         Sure.

He signs a piece of paper.

                   PAM
         Well don't you want to ask me who
         to make it out to and all that?
                   KEVIN
         Oh yeah, sure.

                     PAM
         It's Pam.

                     KEVIN
         Okay Pam.

                   PAM
         You're supposed to say nice to
         meet you Pam.

                   KEVIN
         Sorry, yeah, nice to meet you Pam.

                   PAM
         Nice to meet you too Kevin.

                   KEVIN
         Do you want my brother to sign -

                   PAM
         No. Just you.

                     KEVIN
         Ok then.

They stand in awkward silence.

                   PAM
         Your folks not teach you how to
         ask questions?

                   KEVIN
         Well, like what?

                   PAM
         Like, who shall I make this
         autograph out to? Or do you want
         to have a drink with me some time,
         Pam?

                   KEVIN
         You're asking me out?

                   PAM
         Make me feel a little worse while
         you're at it.
She hits him on the arm.

                   KEVIN
         Oh no, no, I'd love to go out with
         you, I've just never been asked
         before.

                   PAM
         Well hopefully it will go well and
         then no one else will have the
         chance to ask you again.

Kevin laughs. He's in.


INT. SPORTATORIUM OFFICES - DAY

FRITZ counts cash from Saturday night's ticket sales. He
divides up payments for each wrestler. He pays DAVID and
KEVIN less than everyone else and slips the extra cash into
a lock box. BILL enters.

                    FRITZ
         Morning.

                    BILL MERCER
         Morning.

BILL sits down.

                   BILL MERCER
         David's good.

FRITZ nods.

                   FRITZ
         David's good.

                   BILL MERCER
         Saturday night's ratings came in,
         our best numbers yet. I got a call
         from someone over at ESPN. They
         want to offer us a national slot
         on Saturday nights.

                   FRITZ
         That's great news. What does it
         mean?
                   BILL MERCER
         It's a very good financial base.
         We'll get ad revenue, we'll draw
         bigger names passing through, but
         if we perform, and have a world
         heavyweight champion on our roster
         we could be the biggest promotion
         in wrestling.

                   FRITZ
         Oh, we'll have a world heavyweight
         champion, I can promise you that.
         Let's move forward.


INT. BBQ PLACE - NIGHT

PAM and KEVIN are on a date. KEVIN signs an autograph on a
napkin for a passing FAN.

                   PAM
         You this famous everywhere?

                   KEVIN
         Uh, not everywhere. They're not
         such big fans of us up in
         Missouri.

                   PAM
         You travel a lot?

                   KEVIN
         Yeah, we go out on the road but we
         don't need to as much now that our
         show is doing so well.

KEVIN eats massive amounts of meat, fried chicken, ribs.
PAM finds it endearing but she can only eat the pecan pie.
They laugh.

KEVIN takes a bit from a massive beef rib.

                   PAM
         So, what do you want in life Kevin
         Von Erich?

                   KEVIN
         More ribs.
Pam laughs. He finishes chewing.

                   KEVIN
         I want to be the world heavyweight
         champion.

                   PAM
         Can you explain that to me, cause
         isn't it all just fake?

The word FAKE is the most offensive word you can say to a
wrestler. And she kind of knows it...

                   KEVIN
         FAKE? No. Nothing is fake about
         what we do -

                   PAM
         Sorry. Prearranged? Written?

                   KEVIN
         You move up in any industry based
         on your performances right? Based
         on how audiences or clients
         respond to you. A belt, like my
         Texas title, is a job promotion.
         The promoters keep moving you up
         and up and if you reach the top,
         you become world champ as an
         award, because you are the best
         based on your ability. It's like
         an actor winning an Oscar. No one
         says that's fake.

                   PAM
         So, is that all you want?

                   KEVIN
         Course not. I want to be with my
         family. Be with my brothers.

                   PAM
         That's sweet. What do you like to
         do with your brothers?

                   KEVIN
         Anything. Just being together we
         can do anything. What about you?
                   PAM
         I want kids. I want to have my own
         practice. I want a man who is ok
         with that.

                   KEVIN
         Cool.

He just nods and chews.

                   PAM
         So, would you be OK with that?

                   KEVIN
         Damn right I am, we could be like
         one of those modern power couples.
         We can have our own ranch,
         everyone can come live with us,
         all my brothers and their
         families.

Pam laughs. It's sweet, but not what she has in mind.

                   PAM
         You have oldest brother syndrome.
         You want to take care of everyone.

                   KEVIN
         Maybe. I'm not the oldest though.
         When I was five my big brother
         Jack Jr. died.

                   PAM
         My God, Kevin. I'm so sorry. I had
         no idea.

                   KEVIN
         It's alright. I mean it's alright
         now. I don't really think about
         him anymore.

                   PAM
         What was that like?

KEVIN reflects on this, maybe for the first time.

                   KEVIN
         I don't know. It was strange as a
         kid; he just wasn't there to play
         with one day. So, I'm not the
         oldest. I must have the second
         oldest brother syndrome.

PAM watches KEVIN feel all   sorts of pain he's uncomfortable
with. She gets up from the   table and walks around to sit
next to him. She hugs him.   He doesn't know what to do at
first, he's never received   this kind of affection or
empathy before.

                   PAM
         I'm sorry.

After a moment he folds into her. They just hug. He tries
to make a joke of it.

                   KEVIN
         It's a part of the family curse.

                   PAM
         What's that?

                   KEVIN
         Oh, I'm just kidding. Haven't you
         heard about the curse of the Von
         Erichs?

                   PAM
         No.

                   KEVIN
         It's this silly story. Pop changed
         his name to Von Erich which was my
         Grand Ma's name and I guess her
         family had all sorts of tragedy so
         when my brother died people
         started saying it was this curse.
         But that's stupid, it was just bad
         luck.

                   PAM
         Well, I don't believe in curses,
         and I don't believe in luck. I
         think we make our own luck.

                   KEVIN
         You're lucky then.
They laugh and, despite a bit of BBQ sauce on his mouth,
have their first kiss.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - NIGHT

KEVIN comes into the house, floating from his date. FRITZ
sits in the living room, waiting up for him, celebrating
with a drink, feeling uncharacteristically jubilant.

                     FRITZ
         Kev?

                     KEVIN
         Yeah pop.

                   FRITZ
         Get in here. Sit down son.
         Big news for you.

KEVIN sits down across from his father.

                   FRITZ
         I've booked Harley Race to come to
         the Sportatorium. You're going to
         fight the World Heavyweight
         Champion.

                   KEVIN
         Pop, you for real?

FRITZ nods and KEVIN bounces out of his seat with
excitement.

                   FRITZ
         Your first match will be a non-
         title fight. But if you put a
         whoopin' on him, and show the
         world who you are and what you can
         do, you will become the number one
         contender for the world
         heavyweight championship and get
         your title shot.

                   KEVIN
         Thank you Pop, I'll make you so
         proud.

                     FRITZ
         I've dreamed of having that belt
         in this house my whole career but
         the NWA never gave me the chance I
         deserved. I got close many times,
         but they always robbed me over at
         the last minute. So you have to
         take this opportunity. You can be
         the one to bring it home.

                    KEVIN
         Yes sir.

                                                CUT TO:


INT. TV STUDIO - NIGHT

World heavyweight champion HARLEY RACE holds his
championship belt and speaks directly into camera.

                   HARLEY RACE
         I am the four-time World
         Heavyweight Champion, me, Harley
         Race. The real World Heavyweight
         Champion. Not any of this plastic
         nonsense that you all parade
         around with out there. You have
         all these guys walking around,
         talking loud about how they are
         the man. Ric Flair, Dusty Rhodes,
         Tommy Rich or one of your snot
         nosed Von Erich kids. Well, this
         belt is the only measure of who is
         the man. And that man is me. The
         World's Heavyweight Champion,
         Harley Race.




INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - NIGHT

ON A MONITOR we see the TV broadcast of WCCW's famous
Saturday Night Show: The DRUMS, the bad graphics flying
over the awkward picture of the globe, fading into a shot
of the Sportatorium.

The camera pans around to find BILL MERCER sitting in front
of the WCCW backdrop. The DIRECTOR signals they are on air
in 2, 1... BILL talks directly to camera.

                   BILL MERCER
         Good evening ladies and gentlemen,
         welcome to an exciting night of
         World Class Championship Wrestling
         on ESPN for a momentous main
         event. NWA World Heavyweight
         Champion Harley Race comes to town
         to take on the Texas champion,
         Kevin Von Erich.


INT. THE SPORTITORIUM RING - NIGHT

KEVIN VON ERICH and The legendary HARLEY RACE are
introduced in the ring to a packed house of screaming fans.

                   BILL MERCER (O.S.)
         Here we go folks, you can feel the
         excitement here at the world
         famous sportatorium, right here in
         downtown Dallas Texas, as that man
         right there, local hero Kevin Von
         Erich faces his biggest challenge
         to date, four-time world champion,
         the indomitable Harley Race. What
         an occasion this is for the Von
         Erich Family, for the 3500 fans
         here in the building, and everyone
         watching at home, as we are
         broadcasting in 62 countries
         around the world. All eyes are on
         this contest. Now this is a non-
         title fight, the belt cannot
         change hands here tonight, but it
         is a tremendous opportunity for
         Kevin. If he can win, he would
         become the number one contender
         for the NWA world heavyweight
         title.

The two men lock up. HARLEY hits hard. KEVIN hits back.
Things get heated between them.

The color of the ring mat and the lighting have changed.
Everything is a little more colorful.
KEVIN has a good run of quick moves and overwhelms the
world champion. But KEVIN hits HARLEY in the face and
pisses him off. HARLEY gives KEVIN an unexpected LOW BLOW.
KEVIN loses his breath.

                   HARLEY RACE
         Let's take a walk.

HARLEY tosses KEVIN hard over the top rope onto the floor.
HARLEY comes down to the floor and delivers one of his
masterful suplexes onto the concrete floor. KEVIN was not
expecting that. KEVIN is stunned, he has never felt so much
pain. He cannot move.

HARLEY climbs back in the ring and taunts the crowd more.
THE REFEREE starts to count KEVIN out. 1 -- 2 -- 3... Time
slows down. KEVIN is trying to get up but still cannot
move.

THE CROWD IS SCREAMING FOR HIM TO GET UP. PAM watches from
the crowd. She is worried. DAVID and FRITZ stand in the
aisle, looking on anxiously. We can tell by the expression
on their faces that this is not planned.

THE REFEREE continues to count. 6 -- 7... KEVIN uses all
his might, gets to his knees... 8 -- 9... and pulls himself
back into the ring just in time to avoid the COUNT OUT,
only to be met by a giant boot to the ribs.

HARLEY picks up KEVIN and is about to put him into another
suplex when KEVIN slips out, HARLEY turns and KEVIN
delivers a hard kick to the jaw. It knocks HARLEY down.
KEVIN bounces off the ropes and dives into a splash on
HARLEY. The crowd erupts. KEVIN pins RACE, 1 -- 2 ---
HARLEY kicks out at 3. HARLEY knows he is in trouble so he
tosses the REF who immediately disqualifies him. THE BELL
sounds and the fans boo.

                   RING ANNOUNCER
         The Winner by disqualification,
         Kevin Von Erich.

HARLEY grabs a CHAIR from ringside and smashes KEVIN over
the head with it. He does it again and again until... DAVID
storms the ring. He lays a series of moves on HARLEY who
falls out of the ring. The CROWD goes crazy. HARLEY grabs
his belt and walks backwards to the dressing room, taunting
the Von Erich Brothers as he goes.
KEVIN, back on his feet, grabs the MIC but is out of
breath.

                   KEVIN
         Harley Race... You coward...
         Afraid I was going to beat you so
         you cheated?

KEVIN takes a long nervous pause. With a small, but course
changing action, DAVID takes the MIC from KEVIN. DAVID has
immediate charisma and shines on the MIC where KEVIN
stumbles.

                   DAVID
         Harley Race, we showed you tonight
         what we are made of. You came into
         our building, with our fans, and
         my brother here put a good old-
         fashioned Texas whoopin' on you.
         You are the past, your days are
         numbered, we are the future of
         this sport. So keep running, high
         tail it out of here, but everyone
         sees you, and we'll catch you,
         whether you are man enough to stop
         back through Dallas, or if we have
         to chase you down in Missouri,
         Kevin deserves his rematch and he
         will fight you anywhere anytime
         for a fair shot at that NWA world
         heavyweight title.   You can't
         mess with Texas and you can't mess
         with the Von Erich boys.

The crowd erupts. FRITZ WATCHES DAVID TALK, ELATED BY THE
POTENTIAL HE SEES. HE KNOWS THAT DAVID'S PERFORMANCE HERE IS
OUTSHINING HIS BROTHER, HE KNOWS WHAT HE HAS TO DO.....


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - BACK STAGE - NIGHT

KEVIN is icing his back. DAVID is with him, bandaging a cut
on his forehead. FRITZ enters, he feels preoccupied. The
boys wait for the verdict.

                   FRITZ
         You were long getting up.
                   KEVIN
         I've never hit the floor that
         hard.

                   FRITZ
         You got to take it and get up.

                   KEVIN
         I know. He wasn't supposed to
         throw me out the ring. It caught
         me off gaur. There was nothing I
         could do, I physically couldn't
         move.

                   FRITZ
         This is how they test you.

                   KEVIN
         Did I do enough to get my rematch?

                   FRITZ
         We'll see what those rat bastards
         say. I'll chase them.
              (Turns to David)
         David. Great on the mic son.
         Really great. We'll get you out on
         the road. Get you some more
         exposure.

DAVID nods, FRITZ leaves.

                   DAVID
         Dad's downplaying it cause he
         doesn't want to get your hopes up
         Kev, but you were incredible.

                   KEVIN
         Why didn't you let me talk? You
         should have let me talk.

                   DAVID
         Sorry. I was trying to help.

KEVIN stares at the floor. He knows it didn't go as well as
it could have.

                   DAVID
         Hey. Smile. You just beat the
         world heavyweight champion.

This does make KEVIN smile.


EXT. OLYMPIC TRAINING FACILITY - DAY

KERRY VON ERICH, 20's, is younger than David and Kevin,
older than Mike. An ADONIS, he stands totally still, posed
like a statue ready to throw the DISCUS. A SHOT FIRES. He
spins around, and around and releases the discus. He knows
immediately it's a good throw. HIS COACHES, dressed in TEAM
USA sweats, do too. KERRY has a huge smile that lights up a
room.

They wait for the measurement to be signaled back from the
field. VARIOUS ATHLETES practice their events around the
facility. 100 meters, long jump, high jump etc.

                   COACH
         65.5. Personal best Ker. Would of
         shattered your state record.

They clap, high five. KERRY, focused, sets up for his next
throw. Driven to do better, to achieve greatness.


EXT. OLYMPIC TRAINING FACILITY - DAY

KERRY and his OLYMPIC TEAMMATES stretch on the field after
a long day of training. Across the complex, A FRANTIC COACH
runs out of the office and down the bleachers onto the
field. He starts talking to other STAFF MEMBERS and a panic
spreads around the camp.

ATHLETES standing near the COACHES catch wind of the news.
Some just collapse on the ground. Some start to cry. KERRY
looks over, knowing something is very wrong. He gets up and
starts to walk with urgency towards the grieving athletes.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - LIVING ROOM - EVENING

KEVIN, DAVID, MIKE, FRITZ and DORIS are watching PRESIDENT
CARTER address the nation on TV.

                   PRESIDENT CARTER
         In my judgement, what we are doing
         is preserving the principles and
         equality of the Olympics, not
         destroying it. It is absolutely
         imperative that we and other
         nations who believe in freedom
         and who believe in human rights,
         let our voices be heard in an
         absolutely clear way and not add
         the imprimatur of approval to the
         Soviet Union and its government...


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - LIVING ROOM - EVENING

The family continues to watch the president's speech on TV.
KEVIN feels devastated for his brother.

                   PRESIDENT CARTER (O.S.)
         ...While they have 105,000
         heavily-armed invading forces in
         the freedom-loving, and innocent,
         and deeply religious country of
         Afghanistan. And I hope
         recognition
         of a grateful nation will at least
         partially make up for the
         sacrifice that you'll have to make
         this summer in not going to Moscow
         for the Summer Olympics. I can't
         say at this moment what other
         nations will not go. Ours will not
         go.

FRITZ is crushed by the news. He clenches his jaw. To him,
this feels bigger than a single event...


INT. BUS - DAY

PRESIDENT CARTER'S speech trails off as we see KERRY ride a
greyhound bus home. America passing by outside the window.


INT. BUS - NIGHT

KERRY rides the bus overnight.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - DAY
KERRY walks down the long and isolated ranch driveway.

KEVIN, DAVID and MIKE hang a sign over the front porch at
FRITZ' direction - WELCOME HOME KERRY.

KERRY arrives home. The FAMILY embrace him with their
condolences. FRITZ is visibly shaken. KERRY looks worried
he let his father down. They shake hands.

                   KERRY
         I'm sorry it didn't work out Pop.

                   FRITZ
         Me too son.

KERRY reunites with his BROTHERS. They hug, forming a
huddle. Happy to be together.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - EVENING

SATURDAY AFTERNOON FAMILY GATHERING. The BOYS play
football. FRITZ plays quarterback. KEVIN and MIKE play
against KERRY and DAVID. IT GETS COMPETITIVE. KEVIN outruns
KERRY and playfully taunts him. KERRY takes offense and
pushes KEVIN. They scrap. The other brothers break it up.

                   FRITZ
         Fastest in the family Kevin. None
         of you could ever catch him. Still
         got it son.

FRITZ, loving the aggression, eggs them on.

                   FRITZ
         You've got to put him on his ass
         before he breaks past you Kerry.

Next play, FRITZ throws a pass for MIKE and he drops it.
FRITZ yells at him. MIKE waves in acknowledgement.

                   FRITZ
         Oof, Mike, you could've dove for
         that one. You got to lay out for
         that.

Across the grass, the football game gets more competitive.
KERRY lays a tackle on KEVIN. KEVIN bounces right back up.
Focused.
                   FRITZ
         Yes Kerry. Now that's a tackle my
         boy, that's a tackle.

KEVIN and KERRY scrap but the other boys pull them apart.
It is all loving but competitive.

Next play, FRITZ throws a pass to MIKE but KERRY intercepts
it and runs it back for a touchdown. FRITZ is glowing at
his son's athleticism.

                   FRITZ
         That's why you were the best
         linebacker in the state Kerry,
         Coach Royal called me from UT,
         says, Fritz, why is the best
         linebacker in the state watching
         from the stands? Good job son.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - MAGIC HOUR

Bugs and dust hovering in the afternoon light. You can feel
the warmth, both of the air and the family being together.
They eat a feast.

PAM feels at home. She holds KEVIN's hand under the table.
They look into each other's eyes, falling in love. MIKE is
sweetly obsessed with PAM. No one has ever brought a girl
home.

                   MIKE
         Hey Pam, I can pour you some more
         lemonade or something?

                   PAM
         Sure, thanks Mike.

He gets up and walks the jug of lemonade over and pours it
for her. FRITZ leans over to KEVIN and speaks quietly.

                   FRITZ
         You keep hold of her son. She's a
         good one. You put that down and
         someone else will pick it up.

                    KEVIN
         Yes sir.
                   KERRY
         Man, I've been watching, the show
         looks great. Kev I was so proud
         watching you fight Harley.

                     KEVIN
         Thanks.

                   KERRY
         When's your rematch?

                   KEVIN
         Still waiting. We haven't got the
         call yet.

He looks to FRITZ.

                   FRITZ
         I'm working on it. It will happen.

                   MIKE
         Ker, you notice the camera angles
         are all different now. It's really
         cool right?

                   FRITZ
         We're talking about wrestling, not
         camera angles. Your brother fought
         the world champion on national TV,
         who gives a damn about camera
         angles?

DAVID bristles.

                   KERRY
         And how's the music coming Mikey?

                   PAM
         Oh, what do you play Mike?

                   MIKE
         Lots of things. Viola. Violin.
         Piano. Some other instruments.

                   DORIS
         Musical like his father.

All the boys look at DORIS, she's had a glass of wine and
is smirking.
                   MIKE
         Dad's musical?

They look down the other end of the table at FRITZ who
almost looks embarrassed.

                   DORIS
         When I met your father he was
         classically trained on the
         clarinet. He had a music
         Scholarship to the University of
         Texas but he turned it down to
         play football at Southern
         Methodist.

                   FRITZ
         Decided there was no future in
         music. I chose sport and I was
         right.

FRITZ is embarrassed, playfully irritated at DORIS for
telling them. She knows she has exposed his secret, she
smirks.

                   DORIS
         He used to play the most beautiful
         pieces for me when we first dated.
         He was such a well-rounded man,
         not like anyone else I'd ever met
         -

                   FRITZ
         Dotty please.

The boys love hearing this.

                   MIKE
         Hey, I wanted to ask you guys,
         I've got this quartet I'm a part
         of from school, and we actually
         have a gig.

                   DORIS
         That's great Michael, when is it?

                   MIKE
         Well, it's tonight. At UT Dallas.
                   DORIS
         You're too young to be setting
         foot on a university campus on a
         Saturday Night.

                   MIKE
         Kevin went on a national tour at
         17.

                   FRITZ
         That was for work.

                   MIKE
         This is work. We're going to get
         paid.

                   KEVIN
         I can go with him. He can just
         play the gig and we'll leave right
         after.

                   DORIS
         The answer is no.

The BOYS and PAM all look at each other.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - NIGHT

All the lights are off. MIKE climbs out of his bedroom
window. DAVID and KERRY catch him as he jumps from the
roof.

They sneak to KEVIN's truck without making a sound. PAM
sits in the driver's seat and puts it in neutral. KEVIN,
MIKE, DAVID and KERRY push the truck down the driveway.
They build up speed and jump into the flat bed. When the
truck is far away enough from the house PAM turns on the
engine and they drive off.


INT. COLLEGE HOUSE PARTY - NIGHT

MIKE'S prog rock band perform. The crowd love him. DAVID,
KERRY, KEVIN and PAM drink beer and watch, proud.

                                                CUT TO:

KERRY and DAVID do KEG stands, very drunk. KERRY rips his
shirt off and ties it around his head. GIRLS are falling
all over him.

                   KIDS
         One more stand! One more stand!
         One more stand!

KERRY hands A KEG TAP to the closest GIRL, then does a KEG
STAND, DAVID helps him get inverted. KERRY then does
inverted push ups on the keg while a GIRL pours beer into
his mouth.

                   KIDS
         6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15

KEVIN and PAM watch, impressed, amused, but concerned.

                   PAM
         He's got an appetite for drinking.

                   KEVIN
         Yeah Kerry can put `em back. Look
         at my beautiful brothers.
              (Screams out)
         Wooo!

KEVIN is a sweet drunk, he just gets a soft and happy.

                   PAM
         Probably good he's letting off
         some steam.

                   KEVIN
         So, what do you think? We're a
         lot.

                   PAM
         I love your family Kevin.

PAM nuzzles in under his arm.


EXT./INT. KEVIN'S TRUCK - NIGHT

KEVIN and PAM sneak out of the party and climb into the
truck. They are kissing passionately. She unbuckles his
pants.

                   PAM
         This OK?

                    KEVIN
         Oh yeah.

Clothes clumsily start to come off.

                   KEVIN
         Have you ever?

She laughs. He doesn't respond.

She stops and is overcome by a moment of rage because she
thinks he is judging her.

                   PAM
         Would that be a problem?

                   KEVIN
         Oh, no, no, no, not at all. Not at
         all.

                   PAM
         What is it then?

                   KEVIN
         I've just -

                    PAM
         Never?

                   KEVIN
         Not never never, just like, not -

                   PAM
         Oh, Kevin Von Erich you sweet
         thing.

They kiss and start to make love for the first time.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM -OFFICES - NIGHT

FRITZ watches RIC FLAIR beat HARLEY RACE in a cage match
for the world heavyweight title on TV. He is strangely
calm. He has a plan.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - NEXT MORNING
Early Sunday morning ranch chores. KEVIN, KERRY, MIKE and
DAVID dig post holes in the field. They are all painfully
hung over. It is grueling work and the sun is hot already.
KERRY throws up. They all burst out laughing. He looks
around to see if FRITZ saw. He covers it up with dirt.

Across the field FRITZ works hard. A Deep anger is welling
up in him. He makes a decision.

FRITZ walks across the field to the BOYS working.

                   FRITZ
         Kerry, I don't know if you've been
         thinking about wrestling, but in
         terms of raw talent and power, you
         show the most promise of all your
         brothers. I wouldn't wish
         wrestling on any of you, I only
         wrestled to provide for you all
         and I always hoped you boys would
         choose another profession.

KEVIN and DAVID look at each other, smile and shake their
heads. What a load of bullshit...

                   FRITZ
         But the Olympics has been taken
         from you, the way professional
         football was taken from me and
         taken from Kevin too. The world is
         taking from us and I'm sick of it,
         I want to fight back and the more
         of us in it together the better.
         Kerry, I want you to join your
         brothers in the ring.

                   KERRY
         OK.

                   FRITZ
         It's a grueling life, but it has
         given us all this. So, if you're
         sure then I'll give you everything
         I can to help you be the greatest
         wrestler in the world.

                   KERRY
         I'm sure. I'd love that.
                   FRITZ
         Good.

KEVIN and DAVID embrace KERRY. MIKE feels left out.

                   KEVIN
         Let's get you training little
         brother.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Out the window, DORIS' car drives away. MIKE sneaks his
hidden guitar amp from deep in his bed.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

MIKE plugs his amp into his parents record player. He puts
on a brand NEW RECORD. The needle touches down....


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - WEIGHT ROOM - CONTINUOUS

KERRY lifts weights. Through the walls he hears the record
play on full blast, the bass makes the house vibrate. KERRY
finishes a set and sits up, he has an idea...


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - NIGHT

The Sportatorium is ruckus, packed to the rafters, an
energy like we have not seen. THE BROTHERS WALK THROUGH THE
BACK STAGE AREA all wearing sequined jackets.

Just as they are about to enter the arena,"TOM SAWYER" by
RUSH kicks in on the loud speaker. FANS look around,
surprised, excited. THIS WAS THE FIRST TIME MUSIC WAS USED
FOR A WRESTLING ENTRANCE.

KERRY, KEVIN AND DAVID EMERGE FROM BEHIND THE CURTAIN. They
walk down the aisle to the ring. The crowd are in a frenzy.
WOMEN storm the aisle to touch the brothers. KERRY is
nonchalant, sexy. He plants a kiss on ONE WOMAN and she
faints.

The BROTHERS storm the ring and start an all-out brawl with
their opponents, THE FABULOUS FREEBIRDS - MICHAEL HAYES,
TERRY GORDY, and BUDDY ROBERTS. The pace is exhilarating,
the style is a mix of high flying and chaotic back room
brawling. They have it all. THEY ARE AT THE PEAK OF THEIR
POWERS TOGETHER.

MONTAGE: A SERIES OF MATCHES WITH THE FREEBIRDS INTERCUTS
WITH:


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM RING - DAY

DAVID, KEVIN, and KERRY train. Grueling repetitive moves.
FRITZ drills them from ringside, pushing his boys to the
extreme.


EXT. ROAD - DAY

The tour bus passes by.


INT. BUS - DAY

The BROTHERS on a tour bus play poker with other WRESTLERS.


INT. WRESTLING RING - NIGHT

THE BROTHERS fight in street clothes in A LEATHER STRAP
MATCH. It is brutal, bloody.


INT. LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT

DAVID buys pain pills and pops them. Drugs are openly sold in
dressing rooms.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - OFFICES - DAY

FRITZ counts piles of cash, dividing up payments for
wrestlers. He skims off the top of DAVID, KEVIN and KERRY's
cash payments.


INT. HOTEL LOBBY BAR - NIGHT

DAVID, KEVIN, and KERRY party with   WRESTLERS on the road.
Wild and debauched in shitty hotel   lobby bars. DAVID is arm
wrestling with BRUISER BRODY. Both   men refusing to lose,
covered in sweat. WRESTLERS gather   around them. GINO
HERNANDEZ cuts a line of coke for KERRY. KERRY snorts it
and wants more. DAVID wins the arm-wrestling match. He
jumps from table to table to celebrate, then falls knocking
everything over. Everyone laughs. GINO confronts DAVID for
stepping in his drugs. DAVID gets in his face and tries to
start a fight. They get separated. KEVIN sits in the
corner, more low key, watching, laughing.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - DAY

KEVIN, KERRY and DAVID lifts weights together.


EXT. STORE - DAY

The BROTHERS are on multiple MAGAZINE covers. PAM picks up
a copy off the magazine rack, proud. KEVIN comes up behind
her, embarrassed she is buying it but loving that she is.


INT. KEVIN AND PAM'S APARTMENT - DAY

KEVIN and PAM walk through the door to their brand new
apartment with bags of groceries. A sunny two bedroom, lots
of love and potential. They can't keep their hands off each
other...

EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - WRESTLING RING - DAY

Close up on DAVID as FRITZ coaches him on the IRON CLAW.
Sweating, exhausted, pushing his grip wider, the nerves in
his forearm being stretched past their max. DAVID hits his
breaking point. DAVID and FRITZ CLASH. FRITZ pushes DAVID
down, gets him in order, and they start again.

DAVID WANTS THIS...


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM RING - NIGHT

We see the BROTHERS' signature moves:

KEVIN'S FLYING CROSS BODY

KERRY'S SPINNING PUNCH

DAVID'S IRON CLAW
INT. LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT

DAVID gets an injection into his back to deal with the
pain.


EXT. HARLEY-DAVIDSON DEALERSHIP - DAY

KERRY drives a brand new HARLEY DAVIDSON out of the
dealership.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

KERRY speeds down a Texas Highway on his brand new
motorcycle.


INT. SPORTATORIUM - DAY

Pained and determined, DAVID tries to rip a closed PHONE
BOOK in half. FRITZ sits across from him, willing him on.
With an amazing show of strength, DAVID does it.


INT./EXT. SPORTATORIUM - NIGHT

The ticket office is sold out.

The BROTHERS fight their way into the Sportatorium through
screaming fans.

Fans file into the building.


INT. SPORTATORIUM - NIGHT

BILL MERCER interviews the brothers. DAVID talks right into
camera, KEVIN and KERRY on either side of him.

                   DAVID
         Freebirds, ever since you've
         arrived in the WCCW, you've done
         nothing but lie, bully and cheat
         your way to victory. And we're
         sick of it. Now you've made this
         about Georgia versus Texas and it
         isn't. It's about filth versus
         decency. And you know it. And
         we're here today to restore
         justice and order to the wrestling
         federation that our father built
         with his own two hands. The hands
         that were passed down to us. The
         hands that will deliver the Iron
         Claw to you.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - NIGHT

In the climactic sequence, THE BROTHERS wrestle for the NWA
6 MAN TAG TEAM BELTS.

                   RING ANNOUNCER
         Welcome to WCCW. The only
         promotion being broadcast
         worldwide. To my left at a
         combined weight of 740 pounds from
         Bad Street, Atlanta, Georgia, the
         reigning NWA six-man tag team
         champions, The Fabulous Freebirds.
         And the challengers from Denton,
         Texas, weighing in with a combined
         weight of 690 pounds, Kevin, Kerry
         and David Von Erich.

KEVIN flies off the top rope knocking TERRY GORDY out of
the ring. Then KERRY puts a spinning punch on MICHAEL HAYES
who falls into DAVID's IRON CLAW. DAVID pins MICHAEL, and
the boys win. THE VON ERICH BROTHERS are NWA 6 MAN TAG TEAM
CHAMPIONS.

                   RING ANNOUNCER (O.S.)
         The winner and new NWA world's
         six-man tag team champions, Kevin,
         Kerry and David Von Erich!

FRITZ storms the ring to celebrate with his sons. MIKE,
dressed in street clothes joins them. BILL gets in the ring
with the MIC to interview the Brothers. TRUE ELATION,
UNTIL.... FRITZ picks up the mic and with a crazed
intensity, looks directly into the TV camera.

                   FRITZ
         Freebirds! Tonight, you saw the
         strength and resilience of this
         family. We're sending a message to
         Sam Muchnick and every other
         territory out there in the NWA,
         WCCW is the best in the business,
         the Von Erichs are the best in the
         business, and we are coming for
         you all.

The crowd erupts for the VON ERICHS.

                   BILL MERCER (O.S.)
         Wow, Fritz, calling out the man
         who runs the NWA by name on air is
         a bold and unprecedented move.

                   FRITZ
         It's necessary Bill. Because I
         will
         make it my life's work to see to
         it that David Von Erich will be
         the next NWA world heavyweight
         champion.

KEVIN is stunned by FRITZ. He tries to stay in character but *
he is disoriented, his world just flipped.

                   FRITZ
         And then each and every one of my
         sons, starting with Kevin, then
         Kerry, then Mike, all, one day, will
         lift the world heavyweight title
         because the Von Erichs are, and will
         forever be, the greatest family in
         the history of wrestling.

KEVIN looks over at DAVID who feels awkward he was just named
as next in line to challenge. DAVID leans in.

                   DAVID
         I'm sure he didn't mean me first.

                   KEVIN
         Pop doesn't make mistakes like
         that.

FRITZ turns and catches them.

                   FRITZ
         Is there a problem?
The BOYS shake their heads. They shift back to PUBLICLY
CELEBRATING their new 6-man tag team championships.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT

THE LOCKER ROOM IS EMPTY. DAVID, KEVIN and KERRY enter.
TIME HAS PASSED. WE FEEL THE GRIND. THEY sit down in the
dressing room, sweat-drenched, sore, and exhausted after
another grueling match. Their hair is a little longer,
costumes a little brighter. KERRY is covered in blood.
KEVIN straps ice bags to both knees. DAVID'S back has
seized up. He gets an injection to deal with the pain. He
pops some pills.

FRITZ enters with news. He is buzzing.

                   FRITZ
         Boys. I've got good news. We are
         finally getting a world
         heavyweight title shot with Ric
         Flair. And they want it to be you,
         David.

DAVID feels bad for KEVIN, but this is what he wants. He
looks to KEVIN for some approval.

                   FRITZ
         Don't look to your brother. This
         is your time. Your opportunity.
         You have been chosen. You earned
         it.

KEVIN can't look at DAVID.

                   FRITZ
         You'll go on the road and feud
         with Flair in every territory in
         America over the next six months.
         Then you'll go to Japan. You can't
         be world champion unless you win
         over Japan. Then you'll fight with
         Flair at Parade of Champions in
         May at Texas Stadium. Are you up
         for it?

                   DAVID
         Of course I am.
                   FRITZ
         I've waited my whole life to have
         the Von Erich name on that belt.
         We have had a couple of setbacks,
         but I can feel it, this is our
         time. If you perform, the title
         will be ours.

                   DAVID
         I Love you Pop.

                   FRITZ
         Love you too son.

FRITZ and DAVID come together and hug, a moment of rare
affection. FRITZ turns to KERRY and KEVIN.

                   FRITZ
         This wouldn't be happening without
         the two of you. You've made your
         brother better and your collective
         effort has pushed him to the top.
         Keep it up out there. You never
         know when your opportunity will
         come.

FRITZ leaves. KERRY is ecstatic for DAVID. He runs over and
picks his brother up giving him a bear hug and swinging him
around.

                   KERRY
         Fuck yeah David. FUCK, YEAH.

DAVID looks to KEVIN, concerned.



EXT. CHURCH - DAY

CHURCH BELLS RING. KEVIN and PAM leave the church JUST
MARRIED. A small gathering of family and friends crowd the
steps.


INT. TOWN HALL - WEDDING RECEPTION - DAY

KEVIN and PAM dance like goofs, totally free together.
Everyone crowds around having a great time. KERRY takes
DORIS by the hand and they jump onto the dance floor and
join.


INT. BATHROOM - LATER

KEVIN, joyful and drunk, walks into the bathroom and takes
a piss at the urinal. Someone VOMITS in the stall.

                   KEVIN
         Too much to drink already, it's
         still early. Who is that?

KEVIN peeks through the open stall door to see it is DAVID.

                   KEVIN
         Shit brother, you alright?

                   DAVID
         Yeah, just some stomach cramps,
         I'll be good.

KEVIN pushes open the door. DAVID gags, then vomits again.
There is BLOOD.

                   KEVIN
         Jesus man. You got to see a
         doctor.

                     DAVID
         I'm fine.

                   KEVIN
         You're not fine.

                   DAVID
         It's just a bug I picked up on the
         road. Don't worry.

                   KEVIN
         Maybe you're pushing too hard. You
         need some rest.

                   DAVID
         I'm almost there.

                   KEVIN
         You think it's going to slow down
         if you become champion?
                   DAVID
         I'm fine Kevin. Seriously. I'm
         just sick today.

                   KEVIN
         I don't think you should go to
         Japan next week.

KEVIN means it but they start to laugh. They know it's a
ridiculous idea.

                   DAVID
         You're stupid.

They gently slap box each other, laughing, sitting on the
floor of a toilet cubicle.

                   KEVIN
         Hey Dave, I just wanted to say, I
         didn't take it so well, you
         jumping me and all.

                   DAVID
         I understand.

                   KEVIN
         I've been pretty angry, not at
         you, just at the situation, but I
         didn't even want it that bad. I
         just love being out there with you
         guys. Nothing else really matters
         to me.

                   DAVID
         Married two hours and already
         losing your competitive edge.

                   KEVIN
         Maybe. I'm pretty happy to focus
         on my family though.

                   DAVID
         Family?

                   KEVIN
         Turns out this is a shotgun
         wedding, just don't tell anyone.

DAVID puts KEVIN in a loving headlock and messes up his
hair.

                   DAVID
         You rat bastard. Good for you
         guys, God damn that makes me happy
         Kev. Come on, we got some dancing
         to do.


INT. WEDDING RECEPTION - DAY

DAVID, KEVIN, PAM, KERRY, and MIKE dance a TEXAS LINE
DANCE. The wedding party cheer. FRITZ and DORIS watch.

                   DORIS
         Look how lovely she looks when she
         puts a little effort into her
         appearance.

                   FRITZ
         They are a great couple. Reminds
         me of a couple I knew once. How
         about we get out of here, Dotty.

                   DORIS
         Well, I could use some air.

DORIS is having a hot flash. FRITZ takes her sweater off
her shoulders. She loosens her collar.

                   FRITZ
         We could take advantage of the
         situation.

                   DORIS
         No boys in the house. And I don't
         have to worry about you getting me
         pregnant anymore, you big stud.

DORIS and FRITZ KISS. They look back at their sons having a
wonderful time. The CAMERA PANS ACROSS THE BOYS' FACES IN
CU and comes to rest on DAVID.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - MORNING

KEVIN drives up the long ranch driveway towards the house.
He sees a MAN leave the house and walk to A CAR he does not
recognize. The CAR drives down the driveway passing KEVIN.
KEVIN sees the look in the MAN'S face. He knows something
is wrong. KEVIN parks and runs into the house.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - CONTINUOUS

KEVIN walks inside. It is quiet. He looks around for
someone. At first it seems empty until he realizes FRITZ is
sitting in the living room, completely still...

                   KEVIN
         Pop?

FRITZ just shakes his head.

                   KEVIN
         What is it?

                   FRITZ
         David.

KEVIN knows. He sits down - this cannot be happening.

                   KEVIN
         What happened?

                   FRITZ
         He died in his hotel room in
         Japan. It looks like he had a
         ruptured intestine. We'll know
         more soon.

                   KEVIN
         How does that happen?

Both men are shattered but show no pain.

They can hear DORIS walking around upstairs. FRITZ looks at
the ceiling, frozen with fear, knowing he has to deliver
the news to his wife.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - DAY

KEVIN, numb, is dressed in a black suit waiting for the
family to be ready. Amongst the flowers and food that have
been sent to the house is a pile of recent unopened mail. A
postcard catches his eye. He is pulled towards it. It is
from Japan. A lump in his throat. He is afraid to read it.
But he does:

Kev, Sorry I sent this to the house, I couldn't remember
your new address. I miss you Brother, you got to come with
me next time, it's wild over here. Someone asked me for an
autograph today because they thought I was you. Made me
very happy. I'll probably be home by the time you get this
so this is stupid but just wanted to send. See you soon.

This is too much for KEVIN to bear. He slips it back into
the pile.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY

DORIS gets dressed for the funeral. A long sleeve BLACK
DRESS, black gloves and a black veil. She looks at herself
in the mirror. She digs deep to put on a strong face. She
has cried for hours, has no tears left, pulling herself out
of the hell of a lost child.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - FRONT PORCH - DAY

PAM sits with KEVIN, KERRY, and MIKE, all wearing
sunglasses. DORIS and FRITZ walk outside.

                   FRITZ
         Take those glasses off. No hiding.
         All of you. I don't want to see
         any tears.

KEVIN takes off his glasses but can't look at his parents.
He can't stomach the family rallying cry he knows is
coming. He pushes down the pain and makes himself numb. PAM
cannot believe what she is hearing.

                   FRITZ
         The lord decided it was time for
         David to move on. We have to
         accept that. In his 25 years he
         lived 75 years' worth of life. He
         never got the chance to be world
         champion here but he'll be the
         world champion of the afterlife,
         that's for sure.


INT. LIMO - DAY
The FAMILY travel together in a LIMO to the funeral.
DEVASTATED FANS line the streets paying their respects to
the family, waving TEXAS FLAGS and YELLOW ROSES,
desperately trying to touch the car as it moves slowly
through the procession. KEVIN starts to panic, he cracks
the window and desperately tries to breathe some fresh air,
trying to stay calm. He looks up at the news helicopter
flying above.

                                                CUT TO:


A HIGH ANGLE SHOT FROM THE HELICOPTER LOOKING DOWN TO
REVEAL THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE TURNING OUT TO MOURN DAVID VON
ERICH.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - DAY

KEVIN lies like dead weight on DAVID'S BED, soaking up what
is left of his brother's scent. PAM finds him and peels him
off the bed with all her might.

                   PAM
         Come on Hon.

He struggles to sit up.

                   PAM
         I'm here when you want to talk.

                   KEVIN
         No. I'm good. I'm good.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - NIGHT

FRITZ and THE BOYS sit on the front porch drinking beer.
Everyone's exhausted from the day, lost in their own heads.

                   FRITZ
         It's hard to see clearly in this
         dark moment, we cannot let this
         tragic moment define us. Our
         greatness will be measured by our
         response to adversity. Now,
         David's title match against Ric
         Flair at parade of champions is a
         moment of a lifetime. We still
         have a chance to bring the world
         heavyweight championship home if
         one of you will step up and take
         over from David. Everything we
         have ever worked for in the ring
         is riding on this moment.

KEVIN is broken. Over his shoulder he sees a FIREFLY
hovering in the dark. A second later it is gone. He wants
to protect his brothers, he digs deep, he will bear the
burden...

                   KEVIN
         I'll do it Dad. I can do it.


                   KERRY
         I can do it too.

KEVIN looks up, surprised to see KERRY is eager, energetic,
empowered by his father's words. He wants it.

                   KEVIN
         Kerry, I'll do it.

                   KERRY
         I'm ready. I want it.

                   KEVIN
         You don't have to, it's my match
         Kerry -

                   KERRY
         No. I deserve it too.

                   FRITZ
         Boys, boys, it's a tough decision.
         You are the oldest Kev but Kerry has
         been getting the most attention
         lately.

KEVIN is in too much pain to fight it.

                   FRITZ
         We're going to flip a coin. It's
         the only fair way to decide. Heads
         for Kerry. Tails for Kevin.

KEVIN AND KERRY STAND OFF. FRITZ flips the coin. It tumbles
into the night sky...

                                                CUT TO:


INT. TEXAS STADIUM - PARADE OF CHAMPIONS - BACKSTAGE - DAY

The roar of 34,000 fans can be heard... The camera moves up
to reveal KERRY, oiled up and ready to go. KERRY won the
toss. KEVIN stands behind him in support. The entrance
music plays and KERRY walks through the curtain, out into
the stadium. KEVIN stays backstage and waits.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - DAY

Empty. Still. Haunted. In the distance we can hear the TV
playing inside, BILL MERCER'S commentary of the Match.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - DAY

DORIS watches THE MATCH on TV.

ON TV: both men try to toss each other with a hook, neither
works, then KERRY gets FLAIR in a full nelson, and turns
him over into a back slide and pins him, 1,2,3. The Bell
sounds.


                   BILL MERCER (O.S.)
         Dreams do come true. Dreams do
         come true. Kerry Von Erich is the
         new heavyweight champion of the
         world, what a pleasure it is for
         me to say that.

Back to DORIS watching, she feels nothing. THE GHOST OF
DAVID STANDS BEHIND HER, OUT OF FOCUS IN THE DOORWAY. She
feels something behind her. She turns and looks. Nothing is
there. She turns off the TV.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - DINING ROOM - THAT NIGHT

The house is quiet. KEVIN walks through the dark hallway
and finds KERRY at the dining room table drinking, still
buzzing, staring at THE NWA WORLD HEAVYWEIGHT TITLE BELT.
                   KERRY
         Hey, didn't know you were still
         here.

                   KEVIN
         I was just helping Pop. I'm about
         to head home. How you doing?

                   KERRY
         Having trouble coming down.

                   KEVIN
         I bet.

They look at the BELT.

                   KERRY
         I can't believe it's finally in
         our family.

                   KEVIN
         Yeah.

                   KERRY
         I think I'm going to go for a ride
         or something.

                   KEVIN
         Alright. Be careful.
              (Beat)
         Hey Ker, you were great today
         brother.

                   KERRY
         Thanks Kev.

KERRY leaves. KEVIN looks at THE NWA WORLD HEAVYWEIGHT
BELT, the thing his family has coveted his whole life. He
almost feels disdain. He doesn't want it in the house, but
it is mythical, it has a pull. KEVIN, in a trance, can't
help but get closer to it. He reaches out and touches the
belt.

Outside, KERRY'S Harley Davidson fires up. It startles
KEVIN, snapping him out of it.

                                               FADE IN:
EXT. ROAD - NIGHT

KERRY RIDES HIS MOTORCYCLE DOWN AN EMPTY TEXAS HIGHWAY. THE
BIKE GOES FASTER AND FASTER AND FASTER AND FASTER...

                                                CUT TO:


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - EARLY MORNING

KERRY wakes in discomfort. He sits up and reveals he is
scraped all over his body. He has been in some sort of
accident.

KERRY takes several pain killers. He puts one aside,
crushes it up and snorts it.

KERRY hobbles into the kitchen. He gets a bowl of cereal.
We see that his right foot has been AMPUTATED, he now just
has a BANDAGED STUMP.


INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

KEVIN, PAM and the BABY approach a teller window. They hand
over their driver's licenses and the TELLER on the other
side slides out a draft of the BIRTH CERTIFICATE.

                   TELLER
         Is everything correct?

KEVIN reads the paper and makes a decision.

                   KEVIN
         Actually, his last name will be
         Adkisson. It's my Birth name.

                   TELLER
         Do you have your birth
         certificate?

                    KEVIN
         Yeah.

He slides it to her.

                   TELLER
         Let me update it, I'll be right
         back.
The Woman goes back and makes copies. PAM is looking at
KEVIN surprised.

                   PAM
         You sure you want to do that?

                   KEVIN
         No. But, I think I'll feel safer
         for him.

                   PAM
         Kev, it's got nothing to do with
         the name.

                   KEVIN
         I know. I'd just like to do this.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - RING - DAY

KEVIN is teaching MIKE technique in the ring. KEVIN is a
good teacher. MIKE is trying but it looks UNNATURAL. KEVIN
is generally patient but gets frustrated with MIKE for not
being able to perform a simple hip toss.

                   KEVIN
         Come on damn it!

                   MIKE
         Sorry. I can't get it.

KEVIN is tired, he composes himself, digs deep for some
patience. He looks at MIKE. He doesn't have it. He wants to
send him home. But he doesn't. He keeps pushing.

                   KEVIN
         It's fine Mikey. You're doing
         great. Let's keep going.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - NIGHT

THE SPORTATORIUM IS HALF FULL. The ESPN camera teams have
gone. It all feels very local again. KEVIN and MIKE wrestle
in a tag team match. It lacks tempo and skill. MIKE is an
insufficient replacement for DAVID. He should not be in the
ring. MIKE does a series of drop kicks on each of the
opponents. On the third drop kick, he lands awkwardly and
HIS SHOULDER POPS OUT. The ref calls off the match as KEVIN
signals for the medical team.


INT. HOSPITAL - WAITING ROOM - DAY

FRITZ and KEVIN wait for MIKE to come out of surgery. A
DOCTOR walks in.

                   KEVIN
         Hey. How'd it go doc?

                   DOCTOR
         Fritz, Kevin. We completed the
         surgery as planned. We repaired the
         shoulder, but it was trickier than we
         anticipated. Mike's temperature
         skyrocketed, we worked hard to bring
         it down, but it was close to 107 for
         almost two hours. We believe he
         suffered toxic shock syndrome.

                   FRITZ
         What does that mean?

                   DOCTOR
         I'm sorry to say that Mike is in a
         coma.

                   KEVIN
         What? How? It was a routine
         shoulder surgery.

                   DOCTOR
         It's rare, but it happens. All we
         can do now is wait and pray he
         pulls through. I'm very sorry.


EXT. HOSPITAL - EARLY MORNING

KEVIN sits on the curb in front of the hospital. He's been
up all night. He's tired, lost in thought, angry, overcome.


INT. HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM - NIGHT

KEVIN walks down the hall, aimless, pacing.

KEVIN sits in the phone booth quietly, talking to PAM.
                   KEVIN
         Why is this happening to us? Why
         does it just keep happening?

                   PAM (O.S.)
         Baby, stay with me, OK.

                   KEVIN
         But it keeps happening. It's
         taking over.

                   PAM (O.S.)
         It's a terrible accident. Nothing
         more.

                   KEVIN
         He shouldn't have been in the ring.

                   PAM (O.S.)
         It's not your fault. If you want
         to blame someone blame your
         father. But it's not your fault.

                   KEVIN
         I should have stopped him.

                   PAM (O.S.)
         What could you do Kevin? There is
         no getting through to that man.

KEVIN looks across the room at FRITZ, sitting alone.


INT. KEVIN AND PAM'S APARTMENT - EARLY MORNING

The Baby cries... KEVIN lays awake in bed, staring at the
wall. PAM is dressed in vet scrubs standing over him with the
BABY.

                   PAM
         I'm sorry hon, I'm late for work
         and I can't get him to settle.
         Will you take him for me?


                    KEVIN
         I can't?

                    PAM
         What? Just take him till your mom
         gets here. I have to go.

                    KEVIN
         I can't.

KEVIN doesn't want to touch the baby.

                    PAM
         Kevin.

                   KEVIN
         I'm sorry. It's OK.

She passes him the crying BABY. KEVIN can't get the baby to
calm.


INT. HOSPITAL LOBBY - DAY

MIKE and KEVIN sit behind a folding table for a MAKESHIFT
PRESS CONFERENCE. KEVIN is jubilant, so thankful his brother
is OK that he is bursting.

                   KEVIN
         Thank you all for coming. And
         thank you all for your love and
         support.

                   PRESS (O.S.)
         So Mike are you feeling OK?

                    MIKE
         Yuh.

                   KEVIN
         We're all just so excited our
         brother pulled through, shows how
         much of a fighter he is. After
         losing David it's too much to
         think we almost lost Mike too.

MIKE struggles to speak. He is reaching.

                   MIKE
         I'm moved my whole family is here,
         and with me through everything
         and...
His delivery suggests he sustained MILD BRAIN DAMAGE. KEVIN
watches, worried. He stays positive, hoping this will pass.

                   MIKE
         ... That you all out there sent
         flowers. I'm thankful to everyone.

                   REPORTER
         So what is the time frame for your
         return to the ring Mike?

FRITZ stands off to the side, out of view of the reporters,
eyes steadily on his sons.

                   MIKE
         I know I'll be back. Um. Soon. Yeah.
         Soon.

                   KEVIN
         Mike's a fighter more than people
         even realize. He'll be back in the
         ring in no time.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - NIGHT

A FAMILY DINNER... DORIS, FRITZ, KERRY, MIKE, KEVIN, PAM and
THE BABY sit at the table. MIKE IS A ZOMBIE. They know
something is wrong, but no one will say it. PAM and KEVIN make
eye contact, heartbroken by MIKE'S condition. The hope it
would pass is fading.

FRITZ EATS, HEAD DOWN. HE CAN'T LOOK AT HIS TWO BROKEN SONS.

KEVIN FEELS PARANOID. He feels something behind him. He looks
over his shoulder and stares at an empty doorway leading to a
long dark hallway. The baby starts to cry.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - NIGHT

KEVIN wrestles with his new, stand in Tag Team partner
LANCE. KEVIN waits to be tagged back in, but LANCE doesn't
tag him. LANCE gloats, soaking up the fans, making the most
of his moment. He is loving the attention. He doesn't get
the Von Erich way. KEVIN struggles to take part in the
charade but pushes through, waiting to be tagged in. But
LANCE doesn't tag him in. KEVIN is forced to just watch
this imposter finish the match by himself.
INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - NIGHT

KEVIN is the last person in the building. He sits alone in the
locker room. He can't bring himself to go home.

KEVIN walks through the dark empty hallways of the
Sportatorium.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM OFFICE - NIGHT

KEVIN pulls a blanket out of the desk drawer and goes to
sleep on the floor.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - GYM - DAY

KERRY attaches a PROSTHETIC FOOT fitted into an old boot.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - DAY

Determined, KERRY hobbles around the fields getting used to
his fake foot. He starts to jog and falls over. He gets up
and keeps jogging. He is in severe pain. He lets out a
primal scream.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - DAY

MIKE stares at the watercolor painting. Doris brings him
lunch.

                   DORIS
         That's the house I grew up in. I
         painted it.

                   MIKE
         Why didn't you tell anyone?

                   DORIS
         I had my reasons, but I can't
         remember them now.

                   MIKE
         I'm scared Mom.

                   DORIS
         God loves you Michael. There is
         nothing to be scared of.

                   MIKE
         I'm not David.

                   DORIS
         What?

                   MIKE
         Everyone wants me to be David, but
         I can't replace him.

DORIS thinks about this for a moment, but it's too much to
really confront.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - MIKE AND KERRY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

MIKE sits on his bed struggling to strum his guitar. It is
clear his hands no longer work the same way. He is scared,
frustrated, angry.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - BATHROOM

MIKE takes a pill. He looks down at the bottle and takes
another pill. Then another. And another. And another. And
another... He has written a note that sits on the side of
the sink:

I'm sorry if I hurt you, but I am going to a better place.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - WRESTLING RING - NIGHT

KEVIN and KERRY train in their back yard ring. KERRY is back
on his feet working with KEVIN. KERRY grits his teeth and
pushes through the pain. His boot comes off with his
prosthetic in it.

                   KERRY
         FUCK!!

KERRY falls over and just lays on his back.

                   KEVIN
         I see how painful this is. It's
         going to take time. We can't rush
         this-
                   KERRY
         No. I'm ready. I'm ready. Let's go.

KERRY slips his leg back on. HE stands. The sheer pressure of
his leg meeting the prosthetic is painful. It is hard for
KEVIN to see.

                   KEVIN
         Maybe God is trying to tell you to
         slow down. Maybe you should
         consider doing something else with
         your life?

                   KERRY
         Why? So you're the only brother
         left in the ring? So you get all
         Daddy's attention. Fuck you.

                   KEVIN
         I want you in the ring. It's
         impossible doing this by myself.

KERRY pushes KEVIN.

                   KERRY
         Come on! Let's keep going.

                   KEVIN
         You can't just hide this Kerry.

KERRY punches KEVIN in the side of the head with real force.
KEVIN loses his cool and retaliates with a kick to KERRY'S
chest. KERRY falls flat on his back, winded. KEVIN stands over
him.

                   KEVIN
         Come on, you want back in then get
         up! You want back in then get up!
         Get up!

KERRY jumps up and they lock up. KERRY's leg holds up, he gets
his strength back, he is determined. They push each other but
neither relents...

In the distance, in the field, we see a flashlight.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - CONTINUOUS
MIKE walks through a field in the middle of the night holding
a sleeping bag and a flashlight. He is determined and decided.
He is not coming back.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - DAY

A small search party including KEVIN, KERRY and FRITZ
canvasses the land looking for MIKE. They find him.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - MASTER BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

DORIS stands in her underwear. She stares at the SAME BLACK
FUNERAL DRESS laid out on the bed. She starts to shake. She
physically cannot put it on again. PAM knocks and enters.

                   PAM
         Doris, honey, we should go.

PAM sees DORIS has broken. She takes her hand and tries to
comfort her.

                   DORIS
         I can't put it on, everyone will
         recognize it, I can't, I can't. I
         need a new dress.

                   PAM
         Honey, people here love you, they
         don't care. We all love you Doris.
         Come on.

PAM hugs her. They cry together.


EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

DORIS walks up to a small podium wearing the same BLACK
DRESS and VEIL she wore to DAVID's funeral. She addresses
the attendees.

                   DORIS
         Today we are here to lay to rest
         our son Michael Brett Adkisson, my
         sweet, beautiful boy. Kind, funny
         and truly good...

PAM is exhausted by the party line. She looks over at KERRY
and KEVIN watching on, no sadness left, just numb.


EXT. CEMETERY - LATER

After the service, people gather and talk. PAM approaches
KEVIN. They speak quietly, close together so no one hears.

                   PAM
         You going to come home tonight?

                   KEVIN
         I'm not sure.

                   PAM
         I know how painful this is, I do.
         I'm trying to be patient but this
         doesn't work for me.

                   KEVIN
         I'm sorry. I know.

                   PAM
         Just come home. Just be with us.

PAM tries to get through to him.

                   PAM
         Hey.

                   KEVIN
              (Gesturing to the BABY)
         I don't want him to get it. I
         don't want you guys to catch it.

                   PAM
         Kevin. You can't be serious?

She touches his face but he flinches. He is losing it...


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - NIGHT

KEVIN bounces off the ropes, building up speed,
crisscrossing the ring, back and forth, back and forth,
furious, possessed.

KEVIN does push-ups. Over and over and over again. ALONE in
the empty Sportatorium. Machine.
                   KEVIN (V.O.)
         Ever since I was a child people
         said my family was cursed. It
         never seemed to bother my father.
         He said if we were the toughest,
         the strongest, the most successful
         nothing would ever hurt us. I
         believed him. We all did. We loved
         our father and we loved wrestling.

KEVIN working out by himself is intercut with images of
FRITZ and THE BROTHERS all training in the same ring
together.

                                                CUT TO:

KEVIN sits alone in the ring, sweating, breathing heavy.
Determined...

                                                CUT TO:


INT. THE SPORTITORIUM - BACK STAGE

KEVIN waits backstage ready for a match. He looks different
- bigger, more focused, fiercer.

                   RING ANNOUNCER (O.S.)
         This match is scheduled for one
         fall, and is for the NWA world
         Heavyweight Championship... First,
         entering the ring, the champion,
         Ric Flair.



                                                CUT TO:


ON TV MONITOR: BILL MERCER INTERVIEWS RIC FLAIR WHO SPEAKS
DIRECTLY TO CAMERA.

                   BILL MERCER
         Now, Ric, there's been a lot of
         talk that you've been resisting
         coming down to the Sportatorium to
         defend your title against Kevin
         Von Erich.
          RIC FLAIR
It is so hard to be humble when
you're looking like Ric Flair. You
see the difference between me and
a lot of these so-called big-time
stars is that I'm custom made from
head to toe. That's why I've got
the biggest house, on the biggest
hill on the biggest side of town.
That's why this sports coat costs
$800. And I don't know what that
costs! I'd be ashamed to wear it!
That's why I've got on Lizard
shoes and a Rolex watch, and I've
got a limousine out there, a mile
long with 25 women in it. Just
dying for me to go, wooh. Now,
let's get to the less pretty facts
of life. Kevin, your daddy got
together with the powers that be
and ordered me back down here to
Dallas, a nothing-happenin' second
rate sports community. I am the
World's Heavyweight Champion
because I am the greatest wrestler
alive today. The toughest wrestler
alive today. I have bled and sweat
for this title and no daddy's boy
is going to take that from me.
This is professional wrestling. It
is the most grueling of all
professional sports. I've been
stabbed, hit by chairs, beat up by
everybody. I don't cry. I don't
complain. I carry on. But the
bottom line is...

          BILL MERCER
You're denying...

          RIC FLAIR
I am talking right now. Hey,
listen to me. Listen to me. I'll
tell you what, you like talking to
me on the show. You'll listen to
me talk while I'm out here. The
bottom line is, if you're a man,
         you take the ups and downs. If
         you're a real man, you'll never go
         down. You'll just stay up. That's
         why I am the World's Heavyweight
         Champion. And I can go through
         Kevin Von Erich, or any Von Erich
         on the worst day of my life. Whoo.
         Whoo. Whoooo. Walk the aisle,
         daddy's boy! Walk the aisle!


INT THE SPORTATORIUM - NIGHT

THE SPORTATORIUM IS ONCE AGAIN FULL, LIKE THE GOOD OLD
DAYS.

RIC FLAIR parades around the ring, his famous WHOOOOO
echoing through the building. He takes off his elaborate
robe to reveal the new, bigger, shinier world heavyweight
title belt.

                   RING ANNOUNCER (O.S.)
         And the challenger, your very own,
         KEVIN VON ERICH.

KEVIN charges to the ring - no music, no parade, all
business. THE CROWD goes crazy, grabbing at him, but he
doesn't stop to acknowledge them.

KEVIN jumps into the ring and attacks RIC FLAIR. He is
ferocious. Shocking. KEVIN LETS OUT ALL OF HIS RAGE ON THE
WORLD CHAMPION. The match is brutal and only escalates.
KEVIN kicks FLAIR in the head and connects above his eye.
BLOOD DRIPS DOWN FLAIR'S FACE.

KEVIN puts the IRON CLAW on FLAIR. The crowd erupts and
cheers him on. FLAIR falls to his knees and after a moment
inches himself to the edge of the ring so he can grab hold
of the ropes. The REF tells KEVIN to release. (The rule is
you must release a submission hold when your opponent grabs
the ropes.) But KEVIN refuses. He digs deeper and harder on
FLAIR'S forehead. Blood pouring out over his hand, FLAIR'S
face unrecognizable.

The REF warns KEVIN again to let go. He doesn't. KEVIN just
shouts in FLAIR'S face. The crowd is losing energy now.
They are not sure what to make of this HORROR SHOW. The REF
offers one final warning, but KEVIN can no longer hear him.
He has lost it. The referee rings the bell.

                   RING ANNOUNCER
         The winner, by disqualification,
         and still NWA World Heavyweight
         Champion, Ric Flair. Kevin Von
         Erich has been disqualified.

The crowd boos. TWO other officials are now in the ring
trying to pull KEVIN off of FLAIR. But KEVIN just screams,
it feels like AN EXORCISM - an absolute release of years of
pent-up anger.

FRITZ and KERRY run to the ring and get involved. They
finally rip KEVIN away. He pushes them off too. He's like a
wild animal. They contain him and carry him out of the
ring.


INT. SPORTATORIUM - LOCKER ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

KEVIN sits staring at the floor. He is still. Calm. Almost
serene. KERRY sits by his side. FRITZ sits across from
them, furious, fuming.

                   KERRY
         What happened?

                   KEVIN
         I don't know.

KEVIN is not talking about the match - a fog has lifted.

RIC FLAIR comes into the locker room, covered in blood,
laughing. The BIG GOLD BELT around his waist.

                   RIC FLAIR
         Oh, Kevin, oh man, you are crazy.
         You are one crazy son of a bitch.
         I mean I always thought you were a
         little soft but baby you got it.
         I'll give you a rematch any day,
         Christ. Let's get a drink. Where
         can we get fucked up around here.

                   KEVIN
         No. I'm good thanks.

                   RIC FLAIR
         Alright well you change your mind
         you let me know, I'll be down at
         the Holiday Inn.

FRITZ looks at the belt. Disgusted it's not in his
possession. He gets up and taps KERRY on the shoulder.

                   FRITZ
         Come on son.

FRITZ and KERRY walk out. KEVIN is left alone. He looks
down at his hand, his blood covered Iron Claw. After a
moment he laughs to himself. He can see clearly now...


EXT. KEVIN AND PAM'S APARTMENT - EARLY MORNING

KEVIN approaches his apartment. He knocks on his own front
door. PAM opens it. She is on the phone, holding the BABY.
The dog runs out and jumps up on KEVIN. PAM walks back
inside. KEVIN steps in. She hands over the BABY while she
finishes talking on the phone. He overcomes a moment of
hesitation and takes the BABY, looks at him, and holds him
tight once again. PAM hangs up the phone.

                                                 FADE IN:


EXT. SCHOOL - DAY

KEVIN picks up his TWO SONS, now FIVE and SIX from school.
They run to him and give him a hug. He scoops them up and
carries them to the car.


INT. KEVIN AND PAM'S APARTMENT - EVENING

KEVIN prepares dinner to his TWO SONS. He almost trips on the
dog, then a football. The kitchen is tiny. They have outgrown
their home. He is frustrated, but sits and eats with the kids,
loving their company. PAM arrives home in her scrubs,
exhausted. The dogs jump up on her. She kisses her three boys
on the head.

                   KEVIN
         How was your day?

                   PAM
         Long. You?
                   KEVIN
         Fine.

They look around the crowded tiny apartment. It's
unsustainable.

                   KEVIN
         We need to make a change.

                   PAM
         We need a bigger boat.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - NIGHT

KEVIN is now the boss, dressed in khakis and a button down
- OLDER, WISER, WORN. KEVIN is rooting through the
FINANCIAL RECORDS. He comes across something that does not
make sense. He cross references to the previous year. And
the year before that.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - NIGHT

Bill interrupts.

                   BILL MERCER (O.S.)
         So what did you decide Boss?

WCCW has downsized. It is just KEVIN and BILL in the
office.

                   KEVIN
         I think we need to cut down again
         and move to one show a week. Two
         shows is still too many. We can
         get the guys touring during the
         week and then bring them home for
         the Saturday night show.

                   BILL MERCER
         I think it's painful, but smart.
         The numbers just haven't been
         there since Kerry went to the WWF.
         Jerry called again this morning,
         it's a good offer you should think
         about it.

Like his father before him, KEVIN stands in the floor to
ceiling window looking down at wrestlers training in the
empty Sportatorium.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - DAY

KEVIN'S BOYS sit on the floor in front of the TV watching
their uncle KERRY wrestle in the WWF against MR PERFECT for
the INTERCONTINENTAL CHAMPIONSHIP. He looks better than
ever. KEVIN and FRITZ sit on the couch. KEVIN builds up the
nerve to confront his father.

                   KEVIN
         Hey Pop, so we have an offer on
         the table from Jerry Jarret. He
         wants to buy us out.

                   FRITZ
         Son, don't you even think for a
         second about selling the company.

                   KEVIN
         I need to think about my family
         Dad. I'm almost broke. I need to
         do what's best for the kids. For
         our future. We need a house, we
         can't fit in that apartment
         anymore.

                   FRITZ
         If you sell, you can forget about
         stepping through these doors
         again. Damn well almost forty
         years old and still can't take
         care of yourself -

KEVIN is furious.

                   KEVIN
         I've been through the books and
         things don't add up. I didn't make
         nearly what it says I did.

                   FRITZ
         I did what was right all along.
         You think living here was a free
         ride? Don't you dare question me.
Just then, ON TV the climax of the match happens. They stop
talking and watch on as KERRY beats MR PERFECT. The BOYS
and FRITZ jump up and celebrate. But KEVIN is seething.
FRITZ turns back to him.

                   FRITZ
         Atta boy Kerry. That's how you do
         it. Look at your uncle boys.

KEVIN doesn't respond. But he knows what he will do.


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - DUSK

The Ranch at last light on a chilly winter night. The glow
of Christmas inside. KEVIN and PAM are there with DORIS and
FRITZ. KERRY arrives home for Christmas to A HERO RETURNS.

                   FRITZ
         Hey! Welcome home champ. We've
         been watching every match on the
         TV.

                   KERRY
         Thanks Pop. Guys, this is Tania.

TANIA, KERRY'S new girlfriend, is with him. They are both
drunk and maybe high. TANIA is overly aggressive in hugging
each member of the family.

                   TANIA
         It's so nice to meet you all.

                   FRITZ
         Let me get a look at you. You look
         strong son. WWF Intercontinental
         Champion, second biggest title in
         wrestling now that your brother
         ruined our promotion. I knew it
         was time to retire when I did.

KEVIN and PAM share a glance in disbelief at FRITZ's rant.

                   TANIA
         Kerry can you get me a drink
         honey.

KERRY goes to the Kitchen to grab beer from the fridge.
                   KERRY (O.S.)
         Oh, Dad, Dad, I got something for
         you for Christmas, but I can't
         wait. I really want to give it to
         you now. Is that OK?

                   DORIS
         Kerry, wait till Christmas
         morning. Don't be silly.

KERRY comes back in and gives a beer to TANIA and drinks
another. Now everyone realizes he's drunk. FRITZ is upset.

                   KERRY
         It's just so good. And Tania and I
         are going to Mexico for Christmas.

                   FRITZ
         I thought you were home for
         Christmas.

                   KERRY
         I am, this is Christmas. We just
         got a great deal for a Christmas
         day flight to Mexico and we need
         some rest. I've been hitting it
         hard out there, you know.

KERRY digs through his bag and pulls out a GIFT.

                   KERRY
         Please take it now, Dad. Please.

KERRY is so eager, like a child looking for approval. FRITZ
reluctantly unwraps it. It is a beautiful REVOLVER.

                   KERRY
         It's a Smith and Wesson .357 50th
         anniversary! What do you think?

                   FRITZ
         It's great son, thank you.

FRITZ puts the gun in the living room GUN CASE.

                   KERRY
         Don't do that. Let's shoot it now.

                   FRITZ
         I don't want to shoot it now.

                   KERRY
         You always shoot a gun when you
         get it.

                   FRITZ
         I don't want to shoot it, Kerry.

                   KERRY
         Why the fuck not?

                   DORIS
         Kerry! What is wrong with you?

                   KERRY
         Me? What's wrong with him?

                   FRITZ
         Watch it son. You've brought
         company to the house, and we don't
         want to be rude. Just settle down,
         and we can have a nice dinner that
         your mother worked hard to
         prepare.

                   KERRY
         Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay.

                   FRITZ
         Now come tell me, when are you
         getting your world title shot over
         there? I see your old tag team
         partner Hellwig's holding, that
         guy's got nothing on you, never
         has.

                   KERRY
         Soon Pop, soon.

KERRY goes to the kitchen to grab another beer. KEVIN
follows.

                   KEVIN
         Hey!

                   KERRY
         Hey! Sorry brother, I'm excited to
         be home.
They hug. A CHRISTMAS ALBUM plays from the living room.

                      KERRY
            You look good.

                       KEVIN
            You too.

KEVIN looks at him hard, there is something missing behind
KERRY'S eyes.

                       KERRY
            Stop it.

KERRY cracks three beers and hands one to KEVIN. They
cheers and sip.

                       KEVIN
            You OK?

                      KERRY
            Never been better man.


INT. KEVIN AND PAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

THE PHONE RINGS. KEVIN wakes and picks up before it can
wake the house.

                       KEVIN
            Hello?

                      KERRY (O.S.)
            Oh good, I wasn't sure you'd be
            up.

                      KEVIN
            I'm up, I'm up. What's going on
            Ker? Where are you?


INT. MOTEL - NIGHT

KERRY sits on the edge of the bed. He's drunk, high.

INTERCUT:

                      KERRY
            I'm back in Dallas. In a hotel.
                   KEVIN
         You Ok?

                   KERRY
         I'm Ok, course I'm OK.

                   KEVIN
         Hey, why didn't you tell us you
         lost the belt. We could of been
         there for you.

                   KERRY (O.S.)
         I don't know. Didn't think about
         it.

KEVIN just shakes his head. KERRY starts to cry.

                   KEVIN
         Kerry?

                   KERRY (O.S.)
         I'm scared man. I'm out of
         control.

                   KEVIN
         You've got to get some help.

                   KERRY
         I'm in pain man, I'm in pain all
         the time. I'm fucking deformed. It
         takes so much to hide it -

                   KEVIN
         It doesn't show in the ring.

                   KERRY
         I'm not getting a new contract.
         They're sticking me in house shows
         from now on. They don't want me
         anymore. I've got nowhere to go.
         I've got no one.

                   KEVIN
         Where's Tania?

                   KERRY
         Who?

                   KEVIN
         Tania.

                   KERRY
         That wasn't anything.

KEVIN doesn't know what to say.

                   KERRY
         I need someone, I need family.

                   KEVIN
         Come here. Stay with us.

                   KERRY
         I can't. Your boys can't see me
         like this.

                   KEVIN
         Let's go get some breakfast or
         something. Or meet me at home. Mom
         can cook us up some pancakes.

                   KERRY
         I just want it all to end.

                   KEVIN
         No you don't. You don't mean that.

                   KERRY
         I do. I'm alone. All alone.

KEVIN is losing patience.

                   KEVIN
         You got us.

                   KERRY
         I'm a piece of shit. I'm fucking
         cursed. I want to die.

                   KEVIN
         How are you going to say that to
         me, after everything?

                   KERRY
         It's in me. It's taken over.

This hits a nerve. Outside the sun rises. KEVIN digs deep -
calms down.
                   KEVIN
         Kerry, just tell me where you are
         and I'll come get you.

KERRY hangs up. KEVIN thinks for a moment, then calls home.

                     FRITZ (O.S.)
         Hello.

                   KEVIN
         Dad, Dad. Sorry for the early
         call.

                   FRITZ (O.S.)
         It's OK. I'm heading out to do
         some work.

                   KEVIN
         Where's Mom?

                     FRITZ (O.S.)
         Sleeping.


                   KEVIN
         Look, I just spoke to Kerry. He's
         in a pretty bad state. I'm worried
         about him. I'm going to come out
         there. We need to figure out how
         to help him -

                   FRITZ (O.S.)
         I'm working Kevin. I don't have
         time for this. You boys need to
         work it out between yourselves.


                   KEVIN
         Just look out for him Dad. I'll be
         out there as soon as I can.

FRITZ hangs up.


INT. KEVIN'S TRUCK / EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - MORNING

KEVIN drives out to the ranch. He sees his father working
in the field. He looks towards the house and sees a rental
car parked strangely on the front lawn. The front door to
the house is wide open. KEVIN gets out of his truck and
walks up to the rental car. Nothing inside. He walks
towards the house, steps onto the porch, and is about to
enter through the door when a GUN SHOT GOES OFF. HE
freezes. Looks around. He starts to search when he sees
KERRY, laying limp under the tree they called CHUCK HOWLEY.

KEVIN runs to his brother and finds him laying limp, a
bloody mess, gun shot through the chest. The gun he got his
father for Christmas is the weapon.

                   KEVIN
         NO!!

KEVIN turns to see FRITZ lumbering across the field towards
them. KEVIN is overcome by rage. He rushes FRITZ and
tackles him knocking him flat on his back. FATHER AND SON
FINALLY FIGHT.

                   KEVIN
         I told you to stop him, to look
         out for him. You didn't take care
         of him, you didn't take care of
         any of them.

FRITZ, still strong as an OX, rolls KEVIN over.

                   FRITZ
         He called you and you didn't help
         him. You killed Kerry, you took my
         favorite son from me.

                   KEVIN
         You were here, you could have
         stopped him.

                   FRITZ
         You coward, blaming me. Always
         blaming me, never looking at
         yourself. If you were brave like
         your brothers, you'd kill yourself
         too.

KEVIN, with a surge of rage overturns the giant FRITZ VON
ERICH and slams him down. KEVIN strangles FRITZ for a long
moment, seeming like he won't ever let go. FRITZ struggles
to breathe and submits. Just as FRITZ is about to run out
of air, KEVIN let's go. FRITZ lays still, breathing heavy.
Defeated.

KEVIN picks up KERRY and walks away. FRITZ sits up and
stares at the blood and the gun on the grass.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - DINING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

KERRY'S SUICIDE NOTE IS IN PLACE OF THE GUN:

I don't know what is on the other side, but I can't be here
anymore. Tonight I walk with my brothers.

KEVIN puts KERRY'S BODY on the dining room table. KEVIN
looks down at another lost brother. He kisses his mouth.

                      KEVIN
            I love you Kerry.

                                                CUT TO:


EXT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - MAGIC HOUR

THE CAMERA floats through the field as KERRY'S SOUL walks.
He looks down and sees his foot is back. He jumps up and
down on it, happy.

                                                CUT TO:


EXT. RIVER - DUSK

KERRY sits in a small boat drifting across the water. A
FIREFLY guides him. He turns a corner revealing a DOCK, the
same dock where they swam as kids. MIKE and DAVID sit,
waiting for him.

                        KERRY
            Brothers.

                      DAVID/MIKEY
            Hey brother.

                                                CUT TO:

KERRY steps out of the boat and onto the dock. They hug and
kiss each other on the cheeks. Each hug is tender, physical
and loving and gentle, unlike anything in their life.
MIKE is healthy with long hair wearing a pink bandana,
guitar strapped over his back. He looks like a 70s rock
star.

                    KERRY
         Mikey.

DAVID towers even taller, looking his best, a strapping
cowboy. He wears a massive GOLD CHAMPIONSHIP BELT.

                   KERRY
         World Champion of the afterlife.
         Dad said you would be.

                    DAVID
         Finally.

                   KERRY
         Where's Jack Jr?

The BROTHERS gesture towards the FIREFLY. The firefly
disappears and then KERRY feels a tap on his back. He turns
to look down at a sweet scruffy little boy, around 6. This
is JACK JR.

                   KERRY
         I guess you're my oldest brother
         Jackie.

KERRY picks him up. He is pure and gentle sweetness.

                   KERRY
         Good to meet you.

The FOUR brothers huddle together. Reunited.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - CONTINUOUS

KEVIN sits at the table, alone, holding KERRY's hand,
looking out the window, comforted by the thought of them
all being together.


INT. THE SPORTATORIUM - OFFICES - DAY

The Sportatorium is completely empty. KEVIN signs over the
business to a wrestling promoter, JERRY.
                   JERRY
         Thanks Kevin. I'd love for you to
         stay on wrestling if you want.

                   KEVIN
         I appreciate it. I could use the
         extra work.

                   JERRY
         Hey, just so you know, your daddy
         called me out to the ranch. Tried
         to intimidate me out of buying
         this from you.

KEVIN just laughs. Shakes his head.

                   KEVIN
         He never stops. Glad it didn't
         work.

They look around the building.

                   JERRY
         I'm not going to be using the
         Sportatorium so you might want to
         get out of your lease. Though I
         don't know what else they can use
         this place for.

                   KEVIN
         Yeah.

JERRY steps away. KEVIN takes one last look at the empty
arena.

                   KEVIN
         See ya old pal.


INT. THE VON ERICH RANCH - EVENING

THE HOUSE FEELS COLD, DARK, EMPTY. FRITZ arrives home from
a day of working in the fields. The lights are off, the
house feels different.

                   FRITZ
         Doris?

                   DORIS (O.S.)
         I'm in here.

He walks through to the kitchen to find her painting. He has
never seen this in their 45 years together.

                   FRITZ
         What are you doing?

                     DORIS
         Painting.

                   FRITZ
         What's for dinner?

                   DORIS
         I didn't make anything. I'm not
         hungry.

FRITZ sits down across from her. The couple sit together in
silence.


EXT./INT. KEVIN AND PAM'S HOUSE - DAY

A NEW DAY...KEVIN and PAM lay in bed entwined. PAM is
heavily pregnant. Dogs and cats all around. All love. KEVIN
whispers to her belly, trying not to wake the kids.

The BOYS burst into the room and jump on their parents.

                   PAM
         Careful, careful.

                   SON
         I'm hungry, I want pancakes.

                   OTHER SON
         Yeah pancakes.

                   PAM
         How about a good morning?

                   BOYS
         Good morning.

KEVIN scoops them up into a power slam. The boys play
wrestle on the bed.
EXT. KEVIN AND PAM'S HOUSE - DAY

A beautiful afternoon in the back yard. KEVIN watches his
SONS play football like the uncles they didn't get to know.
It fills him with joy but also breaks his heart. He is
boiling over with emotion and finally, for the first time,
KEVIN begins to cry. His BOYS notice. They stop playing and
walk over to him, confused.

                   SON
         You OK dad?

                   KEVIN
         I'm sorry. I'm sorry boys, you
         shouldn't see this. A man doesn't
         cry, I'm sorry.

                   SON
         It's OK dad, really it's OK. You
         can cry. Everyone cries.

                   OTHER SON
         Yeah, what are you talking about,
         we cry all the time.

The BOYS get on either side of him and hug him. He sobs *
harder, letting it all out. The BOYS are naturally *
affectionate and don't hesitate to show him warmth.

                   SON
         Why do you think you're sad?

                   KEVIN
         I guess cause I used to be a
         brother, and now I'm not a brother
         anymore.

                   SON
         Oh. Well, we'll be your brothers,
         Dad.

                   OTHER SON
         Yeah, we'll be your brothers Dad.

The BOYS and KEVIN hug. He holds them tight.

                   KEVIN
         Thanks boys. Thank you.

KEVIN gives them each a kiss on the cheek. He looks at
them. He feels love and feels loved. Something lifts. KEVIN
and the BOYS get up and start playing football together.
The camera rises up. PAM walks out into the grass with the
dogs to join them. The camera keeps rising to reveal the
beautiful land where they now live. It is humble and
idyllic, full of warmth, love, and possibility. The camera
continues to rise up and up and up.

                                          CUT TO BLACK.




END TITLE CARDS



In 2009 The Von Erich Family was inducted into the WWE Hall
of Fame.

To this day they are considered one of the greatest
families in the history of wrestling.



Kevin and Pan have been married for over 40 years.

They bought a ranch and everyone came to live with them.

All four children and thirteen grandchildren.




Iron Claw, The
Writers :   Sean Durkin
Genres :   Drama
User Comments








