




                     NO HARD FEELINGS



                        Written by

               Gene Stupnitsky & John Phillips





OVER BLACK

We HEAR a RUMBLE... and it's getting LOUDER

A TOW TRUCK

Coming at us, filling up the SCREEN

ANOTHER ANGLE

Montauk Tow painted on the door. We follow the truck as it
moves past several sizable homes on an upscale street. It
stops at the smallest house on the block.

A CHARMING COTTAGE

Nestled on a half acre of prime Hamptons real estate.
Landscaped with love.

THE TOW TRUCK

Reverses into the driveway, and backs up to a BLACK TOYOTA
CAMRY with Uber/Lyft decals.

A long STINGER extends from the tow to the Camry's chassis.
The DRIVER jumps out, secures an under hook to the chassis.
He hits a lever and the Camry is lifted off the ground.

THE FRONT DOOR

Flies open and MARGOT CHAPMAN, maybe 30, -- scrappy,
impatient, a rascal, even -- bolts out of the house. She
cinches her ratty bathrobe closed as she runs over.

                       MARGOT
             Stop stop stop stop!
                 (to Driver)
             Gary! What the fuck?!

Gary pauses the lift mechanism.

                       GARY
             Court order for asset seizure. Gotta
             pay your property taxes, Margot.

                       MARGOT
             No, this is a mistake. I'm
             negotiating a payment schedule.

                       GARY
             I guess they're done negotiating.
                                                         2.


                    MARGOT
          So they're taking my car? I'm an
          Uber driver. I can't pay off their
          fucking taxes just bartending.

                    GARY
          Not my problem.

                    MARGOT
          So you're okay with these rich
          assholes coming to Montauk and
          building their summer palaces which
          then triples our property taxes? It's
          all of our problem.

                    GARY
          No, my problem is you went radio silent.

                     MARGOT
              (beat)
          ... Is that what this is about?

                    GARY
          No. I also have a contract with the
          county. I'm just saying an
          explanation would've been nice for
          why I never heard from you again.

Gary presses the lever and the tow boom continues lifting the
Camry onto the flatbed. Margot panics.

                    MARGOT
          Wait! You're right. Look, I was
          scared, okay? The feelings I had
          for you were just really intense.
          So I ran. It was stupid. Can you
          just stop for one second?!

He stops, turns to her. His face a mix of emotions.

                    GARY
          Is that true?

                    MARGOT
          Yes! Last night I was doing laundry
          and thought "I miss that fucker."

                    GARY
          Really?

                    MARGOT
          Yes, really, ya big dummy.
                                                         3.


She punches him in the shoulder. He softens, but then behind
Margot, a GORGEOUS GUY exits the house in his underwear and
begins doing squats on the lawn. Gary's face falls. Margot
continues, unaware.

                     MARGOT (CONT'D)
          I miss us! I miss hearing about
          what the Jets are doing wrong and
          what you would do differently if
          you ran the team.
              (then)
          Just say my car wasn't here. Please.

                    GARY
          You're a piece of work, y'know that?

Gary hits the lever, the Camry continues being lifted. Margot
looks back, sees the Gorgeous Guy exercising.

                    MARGOT
          Who, him? Oh, that's just my cousin.

Gorgeous Guy waves at them.

                    GORGEOUS GUY
          Buenos dias!

                    MARGOT
              (to Gary, explaining)
          He's from Spain.

Gary ignores her, continues to secure the Camry.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          I swear on my life he's my cousin.

Gorgeous Guy comes up from behind, nuzzles Margot's neck and
cups her breast. She gently pulls his hand off.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Second cousin.

                    GARY
          I wanted closure and I guess I got it.

                    MARGOT
              (feels bad)
          Gary, come on... it was just sex.

                    GARY
          Well now you can run from even more stuff.
              (hits tow lever)
          Since you don't have a car.
                                                         4.


The Camry secured, Gary gets back in his truck.

                    GARY (CONT'D)
              (starts truck up)
          My sister was right about you.
          You're a bad person.

                    MARGOT
          That bitch got arrested for elder abuse.

                    GARY
          There's something seriously wrong with you.

                     MARGOT
          You think you're perfect? You're...
              (thinks)
          ...indecisive. Which is annoying.
              (then)
          Look, I'm sorry. Can I at least get
          a ride to the Claw? I'm bartending.

                    GARY
          Hmmm. I just can't seem to decide.

Gary drives off. Margot inspects the court order in her hand.


EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - LATER

Margot, in a restaurant polo, ROLLER BLADES to work, taking
up much of the road. A line of cars behind her HONKS. She
waves them off.

                       MARGOT
          Go around!


EXT. STRIP MALL - STARBUCKS - LATER

Gary's truck parked off to the side, the Camry still on it.
Margot ROLLS past and exits the frame. After a beat...

Margot ROLLS BACK INTO THE FRAME.

She pats her pocket, pulls out her keychain, the FOB still
attached. She presses the fob, hears the DOUBLE BEEP. She
thinks for a long moment, then, glances to make sure no one's
looking...


INT. STARBUCKS - SAME

Gary steps to the front to order.
                                                         5.


                    GARY
          Gimme one of the banana breads. Actually,
          wait. Lemon loaf. No, wait...

In the b.g. Margot opens the truck door and crawls in.


EXT. TOW TRUCK - SAME

Margot randomly presses different buttons and levers.

INT. STARBUCKS - SAME

Gary stares at the pastries as the barista waits,
impatiently.

                    GARY
          Yeah, let's go with the banana bread.

In the b.g., the flatbed begins lowering.


EXT. TOW TRUCK - SAME

Margot now frantically removing the pins from the wheels. She
slips inside the Camry.


INT. CAMRY - CONTINUOUS

Margot starts the engine. Music BLASTS. She turns it down,
then shifts in reverse, and... nothing. She SLAMS the gas.


INT. STARBUCKS - SAME

As the barista hands Gary a croissant, we HEAR a loud
SCREECH. Gary turns to see --

A PLUME OF SMOKE RISING from the tires spinning in place as
the Camry strains to break free from the under hook.


I/E. CAMRY - SAME

A small crowd has gathered to watch this mechanical tug of
war. Phones are raised, recording. Gary BOLTS out.

                    GARY
          What the hell are you doing?!

                    MARGOT
          Trying to save my house, Gary!
                                                         6.


He gets to the truck and hits a lever. The Camry immediately
goes perpendicular, hanging like a captured shark, with only
its front tires on the ground.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Noooo!

Margot turns the wheel and SLAMS THE PEDAL causing the Camry
to TWIST AND FLIP OVER. The Crowd gasps.

A beat, then the door opens and Margot falls several feet to
the ground. She stands on her rollerblades, surveys the
crowd, the damage, and Gary.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          You know what, just tow it.


EXT. COURT HOUSE STEPS - DAY

Margot, rollerblades slung over her shoulder, exits with her
PUBLIC DEFENDER, 50s, rumpled suit, ponytail.

                    PUBLIC DEFENDER
          What were you thinking, Margot?

                    MARGOT
          I don't know. I just reacted.

                    PUBLIC DEFENDER
          One more infraction and you lose your
          license.

                    MARGOT
          Lotta good a license does when I
          don't have a car.

She hands him the court order, he scans it as she takes off
her shoes and changes into her rollerblades.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          My mom left me that house. It's
          paid off. Can they do this?

                    PUBLIC DEFENDER
          If you haven't paid your taxes they
          can. Good news is you have until
          September first. That's all summer.
          You'll pay it off.

                    MARGOT
          Not without a car, man.

Margot rollerblades away.
                                                            7.


INT. LOBSTER CLAW - DAY

An open-air restaurant/bar on the beach. Margot cuts lemons
as she preps the bar. A WALL STREET type, 50's, sunburnt,
enters talking loudly on his phone. Margot clocks him, goes
back to cutting lemons.

                    WALL STREET
              (on phone)
          Yeah the new place is right on the
          water, you gotta come out.

As he comes up to the bar, he shouts his order to Margot.

                    WALL STREET (CONT'D)
          G&T with lime.

                    MARGOT
          We don't open until noon.

He glances at a clock on the wall -- 11:57.

                    WALL STREET
          It is noon.

                    MARGOT
          See the little hand? It's 11:57.

Annoyed, he throws a TWENTY in the tip jar.

                    WALL STREET
          Now what time is it?

She looks at the clock.

                    MARGOT
          11:57.

He stares at her, uncomprehending. He reaches in the jar to
grab his tip back. With cobra quickness, she grabs his wrist.
As they grapple...

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Why don't you go wait in your boat and
          I'll sound the foghorn when we're open.

                    WALL STREET
          What the hell is your problem?

The small struggle is finally broken up by the owner, FERN,
50s, lesbian, salt of the earth.
                                                         8.


                    FERN
          Hey, hey! C'mon, Margot. Sir, I can
          make that drink for you.

                     WALL STREET
          Fuck this.
              (exiting)
          You need to fire her.

                    FERN
          I've tried. She won't leave, Sir.

Fern turns to Margot, pissed.

                    FERN (CONT'D)
          You can't start the season like
          this. I don't love these people
          either, but they keep the lights
          on. Summer's when we make all our
          money. You know this.

                    MARGOT
          I know. I'm sorry, Fern.

                    FERN
              (comforting)
          You know what helps me?

Margot look at her, hopeful.

                    FERN (CONT'D)
          Folding napkins.
              (then, deadpan)
          So why don't you go help Sara with that.


INT. LOBSTER CLAW - LATER

Margot folds napkins. Her co-worker and friend, SARA (30s,
extremely pregnant) scrolls Craigslist on her phone.

                    SARA
          This car's only a thousand. No that's
          just for tires.

                    MARGOT
          Great. I can't even afford tires.

                    SARA
          Here's one without tires.

                    MARGOT
          We've looked everywhere, we're not
          gonna find anything.
                    (MORE)
                                                         9.

                     MARGOT (CONT'D)
              (then)
          And I'm losing hundreds of dollars
          every day I'm not driving.

                    VOICE (O.S.)
          You could sell your kidney.

REVEAL Sara's husband, HENRY, 35, in a charter boat jacket,
sits behind them, whittling. He has a beer in front of him.

                    HENRY
          Or your hair, your eggs, your
          plasma. Our bodies are cash cows.
          People don't understand that. I
          read about a guy in Cambodia who
          sold his feet.

                    SARA
              (re belly)
          Henry. I can feel our children
          getting dumber.

                    HENRY
          I'm trying to help. I'm a solutions
          orientated person.
              (to Margot)
          You should rent it out.

                    MARGOT
          No. I can't stand the thought of
          these rich fucks living in my house.

                    HENRY
          I meant for porn shoots.

                    SARA
          Holy shit. Read this.

                    MARGOT
              (takes it, reads screen)
          "Free Buick. This is going to sound
          strange, but our son is starting
          college in the fall and we want to help
          him. He's a wonderful young man,
          extremely smart but socially very shy.
          He's never had a girlfriend. We're
          looking for an attractive, kind and
          intelligent woman, 20-22, to "date" him
          and boost his confidence before he
          leaves for college in the fall. In
          exchange, we'll give you a free, 2013
          Buick Regal, clean, rust-free, 40k
          miles. Serious inquires only."
                    (MORE)
                                                        10.

                     MARGOT (CONT'D)
              (then)
          "Date" is in quotes.

                    HENRY
          I bet that means sex.

                    SARA
          My husband the code breaker.

                    MARGOT
          This has to be a joke, right?

                    HENRY
          Have you seen these helicopter
          parents? They do everything for
          their kids. This is just the next
          logical step.

                    SARA
          But if it is real...

They consider it for a beat. Henry is incredulous.

                    HENRY
          You guys aren't serious? Margot
          won't even rent out her house so
          why would she rent out her...
          y'know?

                    SARA
          Henry, the adults are talking.

                    HENRY
          What? Oh, because I'm a man I can't
          express an opinion on this?

           MARGOT                              SARA
                                                               *
Yeah.                             Exactly.

Fern enters, takes a tray of folded napkins, turns to Henry:

                    FERN
          Yeah, and you have a Roadrunner
          tattoo covering your entire back.
          Don't think you should be telling
          anyone what to do with their body.

Fern leaves.

                     HENRY
          That's rude.
              (then)
          And Margot, really?
                                                 11.


                    MARGOT
              (shrugs)
          I have sex with random guys all the
          time. I'd love if they gave me a
          Buick when it was over.

                       HENRY
          I guess...

                    SARA
          Babe, you don't know this, but
          women have sex for reasons you
          can't even imagine. Do you know how
          much "just get it over with sex"
          I've had with you?

Henry gasps. Then nods.

                    MARGOT
          I had sex once to get out of playing
          Settlers of Catan.

                    SARA
          I had sex once because I didn't
          want to commute the next day.

                    MARGOT
          I had sex once because I wanted to
          go to New Hampshire.

                    SARA
          I had sex once on a first date
          because I thought the guy was gonna
          kill me.

                       HENRY
          Who?

                       SARA
          You.

                    HENRY
              (charmed by this)
          You thought I was going to kill
          you? I thought you were going to
          kill me, haha.

                    SARA
              (to Margot)
          Still might.
                                                           12.


I/E. OLD CARGO VAN - NIGHT

Sara pulls up to Margot's house, takes Margot's hand. Henry's
in the back seat.

                    MARGOT
          I just know my mom would've wanted
          me to fight to keep this house.

                    SARA
          I say you do what you need to do.

                     MARGOT
          Hey, it would be the fastest way to
          get a car.

                    HENRY
          Yeah, he'll cream his shorts as
          soon as he sees you. Then you can
          drive right home haha.

Sara glares at her husband.

                    HENRY (CONT'D)
          No, because he's eighteen, not
          because Margot's so hot.

Another glare. Henry sighs, gives up.

                    MARGOT
          Thanks for the ride.
              (inside joke)
          I love you, Gus.

                    SARA
          Love you, Gus.

Margot exits the van. Henry unbuckles to move up front.

                    SARA (CONT'D)
          No, you stay back there.


EXT. MARGOT'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Margot, exhausted, opens her front gate. It SQUEAKS. She
opens it closes it several times.

LATER

Margot, pen flashlight in her mouth, fixes the hinge. She
swings the gate to test it. Satisfied, she goes inside.
                                                           13.


INT. MARGOT'S HOUSE -- KITCHEN - LATER

The house is furnished with little money but lots of care.
Photos of Margot and her mother throughout the years.

Margot cooks some rice, goes through her mail -- mostly bills
with "PAST DUE" stamped on them.

LATER

Margot eats a simple dinner alone at her kitchen table.

INT. MARGOT'S HOUSE - MORNING

Various shots.

- Margot has her tools out, replaces a doorknob.

- Margot carefully repaints a window frame.

- Margot prunes carnations from her garden.

- Margot mows her lawn, stops the lawnmower and takes in the
house, thinks...


EXT. MODERN BEACH HOUSE - DAY

Margot roller blades up to the end of the driveway. She looks
up at the steep incline to the gate, sighs.


EXT. DRIVEWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Margot struggles up the driveway, going more sideways than
up. The LANDSCAPERS watch dispassionately.

                    MARGOT
          Jesus fucking Christ.

Margot grabs hold of a branch for support. She turns to see:

The garage is open and inside is -- a 2013 emerald green
BUICK REGAL. Margot stares at her life raft.

The branch SNAPS and she begins rolling backwards.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Fuck nooooo!
                                                        14.


EXT. FRONT GATES - LATER

Margot marches up to the gate, her blades in her hands. She's
sweaty and one knee is skinned. She presses the speaker.

                    MARGOT
          Hello? Allison? It's--

A moment later the gates part to reveal a modern structure of
glass, wood, and steel.

Waiting at the front door are ALLISON and LAIRD GLADWELL, a
well-tanned, white couple in their early 50s. They both wave.

                    ALLISON
          Margot, hi!

                      MARGOT
          Hello.

She hugs Margot like a long lost friend.

                      MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Oh. Okay.

                    ALLISON
          Thank you so much for coming. This
          is my partner, Laird.

Laird, barefoot, in linen pants, puts his arm around Allison.

                    LAIRD
          It's a true honor. Welcome.

                    ALLISON
              (to Laird)
          She's pretty, right?

                    LAIRD
          Yes, very pretty.

Margot smiles as they talk about her like she's not there.

HALLWAY

Allison and Laird lead Margot down a corridor with floor to
ceiling windows. Tasteful sculptures and modern art. The
faint sound of NPR can be heard.

A HISPANIC WOMAN works a stain on the rug nearby.

                    LAIRD (CONT'D)
          Inez, no interruptions.
                                                          15.


                     ALLISON
               (to Margot, explaining)
           Inez helps us with the house.

                     LAIRD
           She's family.

She nods at Margot, returns to scrubbing.

SUN ROOM

A spectacular view of the Atlantic. Margot sits in an
enormous chair across from Allison and Laird. She dabs at her
sweat with a napkin.

A MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN in athletic wear enters with a beautiful
spread: grapes, crackers, cheeses. She sets the tray down on
the coffee table and exits. Margot eyes the spread hungrily.

                      ALLISON
           Thanks, Bonnie!
               (then)
           Bonnie helps us with the house.

                     LAIRD
           She's like an organizational
           genius. She's family.

                     ALLISON
           So, Margot, tell us about yourself.
           Where are you from?

                     MARGOT
           Here, actually. Born and raised.

                     ALLISON
           A local! Well I'm jealous. You get
           to live in paradise all year long.

                     LAIRD
               (points to masonry)
           See these stones? All local.

                     MARGOT
           I thought I recognized a few of them.

A beat. They realize she's kidding.

                     ALLISON
           She's funny!

Margot makes a silly face, spreads some cheese across a
cracker, inhales it.
                                                16.


                    MARGOT
          Wow, that is some good cheese.

                    LAIRD
          Feel free to bring some home with
          you. We'll have Inez wrap it up.

                    ALLISON
          So, Margot, I meant to ask on the
          phone: how old are you?

                    MARGOT
          I know you're looking for someone
          early to mid twenties. I'm slightly
          older.

                    ALLISON
          How old, may I ask?

                    MARGOT
          Well, I just turned twenty-nine.

                       ALLISON
          When?

                       MARGOT
          Last year.

                    LAIRD
          So you're twenty-nine?

                    MARGOT
          Yes, last year.

Allison and Laird share a confused look.

                    ALLISON
          And how old are you right now?

                    MARGOT
          One more year older.

                       LAWYER
          So thirty?

                    MARGOT
          Yeah. Thirty-one.

Another look between them.

                    ALLISON
          That's older than we were thinking.
                                      17.


          MARGOT
May I be frank? I assume I'm here
because you haven't found anyone
yet. And the reason you haven't
found anyone is because young girls
are idiots. It's not their fault,
they're young. But this is your son
we're talking about. What you need
is someone who looks like a peer,
but is mature enough to handle this
with the tact and sensitivity the
situation requires.

          ALLISON
    (beat, then)
Good answer. You're good.

          LAIRD
And normal. It's been really hard
to find someone normal.

          ALLISON
The economy's too damn strong.

          LAIRD
We're just worried about our son.
He's such a wonderful young man:
sensitive, loving, extremely
bright.

          ALLISON
He's brilliant. He's going to
Princeton in the fall.

          MARGOT
Heard of it.

          ALLISON
The only problem is he's never
dated anybody. We're worried he's
falling behind... socially.

          LAIRD
And he's always on his phone. It
makes him anxious and depressed.

          LAIRD (CONT'D)
He's unhappy.

          ALLISON
Laird was unhappy when he was
Percy's age.
                                                        18.


                     LAIRD
          I was.

                    ALLISON
          And you know what helped him? We
          started "dating" right before
          college -- and Laird thrived.

                     LAIRD
          Thrived.

                    ALLISON
          And that's what we want for Percy.
          He just needs a little nudge.

Margot nods as she inhales another salami/cheese cracker.

                    MARGOT
              (mouth full)
          So how does this work? Honor system?

                    LAIRD
          That. And we know his passcode.

                    MARGOT
          And he's not gay?

                    ALLISON
          We've seen his internet history.
          It's graphic, but it's not gay.

                    LAIRD
          We were hoping he was gay. It would
          explain things. He's an introvert.

                    ALLISON
          And we've tried everything: Setting
          him up with girls at school, family
          friends' kids. Nothing's worked.

                    LAIRD
          We're just really worried about
          him. We can't send him off to
          college like this. We just can't.

His voice trails, he gets emotional. Allison takes his hand.

                     MARGOT
          That's why you called a professional.
              (immediately)
          Not a "professional." Just a woman
          who needs a car.
              (then)
                     (MORE)
                                                   19.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Speaking of which -- not to look a
          gift horse in the mouth -- but does
          it have to be a Buick?

                    LAIRD
          It's just what Dad drove. He refused
          to buy German or Japanese cars.

                    MARGOT
          Because of the war?

                    LAIRD
          No, he hated foreigners. He'd shout
          "they come here and take what's ours!"

Margot looks around the fancy living room.

                     MARGOT
          I know the feeling.
              (then)
          I'm fine with money, too...

                    ALLISON
          Yeah, thing is, Laird's a lawyer...

                    LAIRD
              (chuckles)
          Yeah, that's solicitation. But I
          think you'll find the Buick is of
          equal or greater value for services
          provided.

                       MARGOT
              (nods)
          ... Cool.

                    ALLISON
          As for protection-

                    MARGOT
          Oh, I'm on the pill. Or do you mean
          condoms? I'm all stocked up.

                    LAIRD
          Then great! Just date Percy and the
          Buick's yours.

                    ALLISON
          And get to know him. He's a great kid.

                    LAIRD
          But also date him. Date him hard.
                                                        20.


                    ALLISON
          Laird.

                    MARGOT
          I'll date his brains out.

                    LAIRD
              (to Allison)
          She gets it.

Something off screen catches Margot's eye.

                    MARGOT
          Is that him?

She points at a FRAMED FAMILY PICTURE on the wall. Allison
and Laird have their arms around PERCY (skinny, anime t-
shirt, glasses) in a helicopter over the Grand Canyon.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Oh yeah, I see the resemblence.

                    LAIRD
          He's adopted.

                    MARGOT
          Still a resemblence.

                    ALLISON
          We couldn't have children, so Percy's
          been a blessing for us.

Margot puts her hands over her heart, touched.

                    LAIRD
          Oh, and -- I don't see this
          happening -- but if Percy meets
          someone the "organic" way...

                    ALLISON
          We always prefer organic.

                    LAIRD
          What I'm saying is: the deal's off
          if you're beaten to the punch.

                    MARGOT
          Well. I better get to work then.

Allison and Laird laugh, but Margot's not kidding.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
              (looks around)
          Sooooo is he up in his room, or...
                                                           21.


                    LAIRD
          Oh, no. No, he's not home.

                    ALLISON
          Yes, he can't know about this.

                    LAIRD
          He would be destroyed, and it would
          obviously defeat the purpose of
          helping his confidence.

                       MARGOT
          Of course.

                    ALLISON
          Let's bring up Percy's summer
          calendar.

They both get on their phones. Margot makes a face -- he has
a calendar?

                    LAIRD
              (off phone)
          From 10 to 6 he volunteers at the
          shelter.

                    LAIRD (CONT'D)
          We thought you could go in there
          like you're looking to adopt a dog.

                    MARGOT
          That is so sweet. I love dogs. I
          can't wait to meet Percy.

Inez appears with a satchel of cheese. Allison and Laird
share a smile, stand.

                    LAIRD
              (extends his hand)
          Very nice to meet you, Margot.
          There's your cheese.

                    MARGOT
              (surprised)
          The cheese means we're done?

                    ALLISON
              (warmly)
          We'll be in touch.

Over MELANCHOLY ACOUSTIC GUITAR MUSIC...
                                                           22.


INT. PERCY'S BEDROOM - DAY

A ship-in-a-bottle and an Incredible Hulk figure on his shelf.
Daredevil and Green Lantern comics sequentially organized. A
framed "Dragon Ball Z" animation cell on beside a poster of
Odd Future. A Princeton sweatshirt hangs off a chair. Two pill
bottles on his nightstand.

In the middle of it all is Percy. He lies on his covers,
staring at the ceiling.


INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Percy sits at the kitchen table, mindlessly scrolling on his
phone. Allison serves him a sandwich, the corners cut off.


EXT. SAG HARBOR BAY - DAY

Laird pilots the boat while Percy looks at his phone.


INT. PERCY'S BEDROOM - DAY

- Percy plays heavy metal on his electric guitar. He's okay.

- Percy plays a video game.

- Percy watches TikTok. Two GIRLS in boxers and t-shirts do a
choreographed dance.


EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

Percy, in a helmet and neon vest, cautiously bikes along the
fog line, wincing as a car whooshes past.


EXT. BEST FRIENDS - PARKING LOT - DAY

Percy locks up his bike, heads inside. Beat. He quickly
doubles back to make sure that his bike is locked, giving the
bike lock numbers another cautionary scramble.


INT. BEST FRIENDS - EARLY EVENING

An upscale animal shelter. Fancy dog food and toys line the
walls. Lots of barking.

Margot enters, dressed to impress in a revealing outfit. She
spots Percy giving a wiener dog a scalp massage. He notices
Margot, quickly looks away.
                                                        23.


She smiles and starts towards him when a chunky, confident
man of 20, CRISPIN, sprints over in a "I RESCUED MY BEST
FRIEND" shirt.

                    CRISPIN
          Hi, can I interest you in some unconditional
          love? Looking for something to slobber on you?

                    MARGOT
              (off Percy)
          Can he help me?

                    CRISPIN
          He mostly works with the dogs. I
          deal with people.

                    MARGOT
          You have a weird energy. I want him.

Rejected. But he's used to it, quickly recovers.

                    CRISPIN
          Percy! Can you help this lady?

Margot frowns at being called "lady." Percy nods, nervous.
Margot struts over, gives him a flirty smile.

                    MARGOT
          Well hello there.

                    PERCY
          How can I help you, ma'am?

Margot smiles, grits her teeth.

                    MARGOT
          I love your shirt.

Percy looks down at his anime shirt - a ghastly demon with a
sword exploding out of its face.

                    PERCY
          .... Thanks.

                    MARGOT
          Really cool cartoon.

                    PERCY
          It's not a cartoon. It's anime.

                     MARGOT
          Yeah, animated. That's what I said.
              (then)
          Mind if I touch your wiener?
                                                        24.


                      PERCY
          ... What?

She points to the dog.

                      PERCY (CONT'D)
          Oh. Yeah.

Margot bends down and pets the wiener dog. Percy nervously
pulls out his phone, begins scrolling.

                    MARGOT
              (flirty)
          That doesn't mean you can get on
          your phone. I need your help.

                    PERCY
              (puts phone away)
          Sorry. Uh, what kind of dog are you
          looking for?

                    MARGOT
          I wish I could save them all. Which
          is the most fucked up?

Percy thinks, then opens a nearby cage. Out comes a GERMAN
SHEPHARD.

                    PERCY
          This is Milo. He's really sweet.
          He was a drug dog for the state
          police but got addicted to c-o-c-a-
          i-n-e.

                      MARGOT
          Cocaine?

Milo goes nuts, barking and howling.

                     PERCY
          Milo! No!
              (to Margot)
          If he hears the word he gets
          triggered.

Percy struggles to put Milo back in the cage.

                    MARGOT
          Sorry, Milo, I'm fresh out.
              (clocks Percy's side eye)
          And I'm high on this beautiful
          life. So which one do you think I
          should adopt?
                                                        25.


                    PERCY
          Not sure. I'd need to ask you a few
          questions first to make sure you're
          a suitable candidate.

                    MARGOT
          By all means. If you feel the need
          to take me in the back and inspect
          me.

                    PERCY
          Not you specifically. We have to do
          it with everyone. It's the rules.

                       MARGOT
              (beat)
          ... Cool.


INT. BEST FRIENDS - BACK OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Pictures of happy owners and their new dogs hang on the wall.
Percy takes a seat at the desk. Margot sits across from him.
He pulls up the questionnaire on the laptop.

                    PERCY
              (typing)
          Margot. Chapman.

                    MARGOT
          I should have a name tag right here.

She jiggles her breast. He doesn't notice.

                       PERCY
          Spouse?

                    MARGOT
          Currently single. Thank god, too.
          It's more fun. You can be
          spontaneous, y'know.

                     PERCY
              (as he types)
          Unmarried.
              (then)
          Children?

                    MARGOT
          Too young. Having fun still.
          Meeting new people. I love that.
                                                        26.


                     PERCY
              (as he types)
          Childless.

Margot frowns, her flirting is not working.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          And why do you want to adopt a dog?

                    MARGOT
          Because I can't have dogs of my own.
              (joke dies, quiet)
          Kidding.

                    PERCY
              (continuing)
          What do you plan to do with the dog
          if you move?

                    MARGOT
          I'm not moving.

                    PERCY
          But what if you do?

                    MARGOT
          I won't. I've lived here my whole
          life. I love it here. I'm not going
          anywhere.

                    PERCY
          Well if you've never done anything
          different, how do you know you
          won't like something else better?

                    MARGOT
          Is that on the questionnaire?

                    PERCY
          Sorry. No. I didn't mean to pry.

                    MARGOT
          Pry. Pry me open. I promise I'll
          lay myself bare.

She gives some strong eye contact. Uncomfortable, he looks up
at the clock.

                    PERCY
          I should start closing up.

                    MARGOT
          Awwww, but I have more questions.
          What should we do?
                                                          27.


                    PERCY
          You can come back another day.

                    MARGOT
          Or I can give you a ride home and
          we can keep talking?

Margot gives her best thousand watt smile. Percy considers.

                                                     CUT TO:


INT. BEST FRIENDS - MAIN AREA - CONTINUOUS

Margot and Percy breeze past Crispin at reception.

                    PERCY
          Is it okay if I leave early?

                    MARGOT
              (sweetly)
          You can finish alone, right? Bet
          you do it all the time.

                     CRISPIN
          Uhhhh...

                     MARGOT
          Thanks.

They exit. Crispin is shocked.

                    CRISPIN
          .... Okay then. Approved.


EXT. BEST FRIENDS - PARKING LOT - MOMENTS LATER

Margot and Percy approach Sara/Henry's VAN. Percy stops in
his tracks.

                    PERCY
          This is your van?

ANGLE on the windowless pedophile van.

                    MARGOT
          It is for tonight.

                    PERCY
          There's no windows.
                                                         28.


                    MARGOT
              (winks)
          More privacy.

Beat. Percy grows uncomfortable.

                    PERCY
          Actually, I just remembered I rode
          my bike here.

He unlocks his bike. Margot opens the back of the van.

                    MARGOT
          Plenty of room for it.

She takes it, throws it in the back.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          You can sit up front with me. Get in.

He just stands there.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
              (smiles)
          I won't bite. Unless you want me to.

He cautiously gets in.

                    PERCY
          Don't bite me.


I/E. VAN - MOMENTS LATER

Foghat blares on the radio. Percy nervously fiddles with his
lapbelt.

                    MARGOT
          I mean yeah, whatever, I've been
          with girls a couple times.
              (singing along)
          "Slow Ride, take it easy."

                    PERCY
          Where's the rest of my seatbelt?

                    MARGOT
          That is a lap belt. Just pretend
          you're on an airplane. I'll be your
          flight attendant.

                     PERCY
          Why is the flight attendant flying
          the plane?
                                                          29.


                    MARGOT
          Because I've killed the pilot and
          taken the plane over. You're my
          hostage.

She takes a hard right turn.

                    PERCY
          You didn't signal.

                    MARGOT
          Nobody signals.

                    PERCY
              (looks around)
          This isn't the way to my house.

                    MARGOT
          We're taking the scenic route.

Percy looks in the back of the van: Harpoons, ropes, cages.
Might as well be torture equipment.

                    PERCY
          Where are we going?

                    MARGOT
          It's a surprise.

Percy tenses, then covertly takes his phone out, begins
texting "Kidnapped Help" to his parents. Margot snatches it.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Gimme that! You guys and your phones.

Panic sets in. His face frozen in fear.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
              (singing)
          Move to the music!

She "sexy dances" while driving as she   pulls into her
driveway, turns off the car. She hears   a faint rattle, looks
over to see Percy, back turned to her,   his arm moving up and
down rapidly. Nothing but the sound of   heavy breathing.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          What'cha got down there?

Percy wheels around, thrusting out a can of MACE he was
shaking, blasts her in the eyes while screaming.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          AHHHHH! FUCK!
                                                        30.


Margot opens the door, falls out of the van, staggers around
blindly. Percy jumps out, runs around back -- and into
Margot. He screams, MACES HER AGAIN.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          AHHHH!!!! STOP!!!!

She GASPS for air.

                      MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Whyyyyyy?

                    PERCY
          You tried abducting me! You put me
          in a van and took my phone!

                    MARGOT
          If I were kidnapping you, you think
          I'd give you all my personal
          information first?

Percy considers this for a beat.

                    PERCY
          I guess that's true.

                    MARGOT
          Couldn't you just use your rape whistle?

                    PERCY
          Why would I have a rape whistle?

                    MARGOT
          WHY DO YOU HAVE MACE??
              (then, polite)
          Sorry. Can you please get the hose?

Percy looks around, spots a hose, grabs it and runs it back
and aims it at her. He presses the nozzle... nothing.

                    PERCY
          It's broken!

                    MARGOT
          Did you turn the water on?

                    PERCY
          You have to turn the water on?

                    MARGOT
          Are you fucking with me? Turn the spigot.

Percy runs back to the house with the hose and examines a
fuel gauge.
                                                           31.


                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          That's the gas meter. Over there.

He sees it, turns the spigot, comes back to Margot.

He BLASTS her in the face with the highly pressured water.
She puts her hands up to stop it.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Fuck! Ow! Gimme that!

She twists the nozzle, lowers the pressure and sprays herself.
She finally exhales.

                    PERCY
          I don't know how to work the
          equipment. We have gardeners.

                    MARGOT
          Percy... I wasn't trying to abduct
          you. I just thought you were cute.

                    PERCY
          You think I'm cute?

                    MARGOT
          Yeah, back when I had retinas.

                    PERCY
              (thinks, then)
          Maybe we should go on a date then?
          Or we don't have to.

                    MARGOT
          No, I want to. Just gimme like half
          an hour to flush out my contacts.

                    PERCY
          I didn't mean now. I meant tomorrow.

                    MARGOT
          Fine. Yes. Great.

Percy retrieves his bike from the back of the van.

                    PERCY
          See you tomorrow then?

                    MARGOT
              (thumbs up, winces)
          Can't wait.

He smiles the smallest of smiles then bikes away leaving
Margot on her lawn, wet, red and exhausted.
                                                          32.


EXT. LOBSTER CLAW - PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Margot and Sara sit on the curb while Henry opens all the
doors and windows of the van. Margot holds a wet rag to her
eyes.

                     MARGOT
           I can't believe this kid is going
           to Princeton. He's dumb as shit.

                     HENRY
           He's not dumb, he's just scared of
           the world. They're all like this.
           They grow up encased in bubblewrap.

                      SARA
           My cousin, she's nineteen and still
           lives at home. Doesn't drive,
           doesn't go to parties. Always on
           her phone.

                     MARGOT
           Well, I need the van again
           tomorrow.

                     HENRY
           It's gonna take a week to air this
           thing out and Sara's pregnant, she
           can't be breathing these fumes.
           You've lost van privileges.
               (points off screen)
           Ask Fern for the claw car.

ANGLE ON

A DODGE NEON wrapped in vinyl "Lobster Claw" marketing.

                     MARGOT
           Yeah, that'll drop his panties.

They stop talking as a pretty local girl, MELANIE, walks by,
gets into a late model Porsche.

                       MELANIE
           Hey guys!

They wave back, ad lib hellos. After she passes...

                     HENRY
               (conspiratorial)
           Y'know, you could do what Melanie's
           doing and get a sugar daddy. You
           won't need to worry about a car. Or
           property taxes.
                                                        33.


                     MARGOT
          The whole point of this Buick thing
          is that it's quick.
              (off Melanie)
          I'm not gonna be on call to some
          rich asshole all summer. So if you
          see me doing that, it means I've
          compromised who I am and you can
          kill me. Because I've given up.
              (beat)
          But ya know, good for Melanie.

                    SARA
          Honestly, sounds like he was just
          nervous. A date could be good.

                    MARGOT
              (in her head)
          I need to be making money. I need
          that car.

                    SARA
          Listen. Go on a date. Get drunk
          together. He'll loosen up. It'll be
          fun!

Margot looks at Sara, an idea forming...

                    MARGOT
          Of course. We'll just get drunk
          together. Why didn't I think of
          that?


EXT. TOWNIE BAR - NIGHT

Pool table, juke box, neon beer signs. Margot finishes a
beer. Percy looks out of the place amongst the older crowd.

                    MARGOT
          I'm so glad we're doing this. A date was
          a great idea.

                    PERCY
          Can I ask you a question?

                    MARGOT
          Shoot.

                    PERCY
          Am I allowed to be here?
                                                         34.


                    MARGOT
          Oh, yeah. I know the owner. It's fine.
              (looks around)
          Where's the waitress?

                    PERCY
          He said it's okay?

                     MARGOT
          Yeah. He put it in writing. I got
          it notarized and everything.
               (then, softens)
          Look, you're going to college soon,
          you should get used to being in a
          bar.

                     PERCY
              (considers)
          Okay.
              (then)
          I just hope my parents don't see
          that I'm here.

                    MARGOT
              (looking around)
          Do they come here?

                    PERCY
          No, they track my phone.

                     MARGOT
              (beat)
          Wow. Okay.
              (looks around)
          I need a drink.

                    PERCY
          Why?

                    MARGOT
          I've been tense.

                    PERCY
              (concerned)
          Is everything okay?

                    MARGOT
          Yeah, it's just -- I barely know
          you, but I'll just tell you.

She moves closer, presses her breasts against his arm.
                                                35.


                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          And I had a dream about you. It was
          really intense. Don't ask.

Percy pulls out his phone, nervously scrolls.

                     PERCY
          Okay.

                    MARGOT
          You ever have one of those?

Percy thinks, puts his phone down.

                    PERCY
          Actually, yeah.

She moves even closer.

                     MARGOT
          Tell me.

                    PERCY
          You know Harley Quinn? From Suicide
          Squad?

                    MARGOT
              (no idea)
          ... Sure.

                    PERCY
          I had a dream I wouldn't let her
          adopt a dog, so she locked me in
          one of the dog cages and dragged me
          back to her hideout. Very intense.

                    MARGOT
              (confused)
          ... And then you banged?

                    PERCY
          What? No! I kicked at the cage and
          screamed until finally Inez came in
          my room and woke me up.

                     MARGOT
              (beat)
          How the fuck is that a sex dream?

                    PERCY
          You asked if I have intense dreams.
                                                  36.


                    MARGOT
          You're right. I should've been more
          specific.

A WAITRESS comes over.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Alright, here we go. Makers neat.
          And my friend here will have a...

                       PERCY
          Pepsi.

Margot's face falls.

                    WAITRESS
          We only have Coke.

                       PERCY
          Hmm.

                    MARGOT
          No, Percy, no. He'll have a beer.

                    PERCY
              (searches menu)
          In that case I'll have... an O'Doul's
          beer, please. Thank you.

                    MARGOT
              (annoyed)
          You sure?

                    PERCY
          Oh wait, you guys sell daiquiris?

Margot brightens.

                    MARGOT
          Only the best in Montauk!

                    PERCY
          I've always wanted to try one.
              (then, dramatic)
          One virgin daiquiri, please.

The Waitress leaves. Margot quietly fumes.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          Oh they have Big Buck Hunter. Cool.
          Do you have any quarters?

                    MARGOT
          You don't want an adult beverage?
                                                           37.


                    PERCY
          Oh no, I don't drink.

                     MARGOT
          Never?

                     PERCY
          Never.

                    MARGOT
          You're eighteen. You're not even
          curious about drinking?

Percy pulls his phone out, scrolls.

                    PERCY
          I won't like it.

                    MARGOT
          But what if you do.

                     PERCY
          I won't.

                    MARGOT
              (referencing Percy)
          Well if you've never done anything
          different, how do you know you
          won't like something else better?

The Waitress returns with drinks.

                    WAITRESS
          Manhattan for the lady and a virgin
          daiquiri for the young man.

                    MARGOT
              (to waitress)
          Stay close.

The Waitress leaves. Margot puts her drink down, studies
Percy for a beat.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Drinking's a social lubricant.
          You'd benefit. You wouldn't need to
          pull out your phone every time you
          got nervous.

                    PERCY
          I'm not nervous.

Margot takes Percy's straw, puts it in her bourbon and pushes
the straw towards his mouth. He purses his lips, resists.
                                                           38.


                    MARGOT
          It's time to learn. You're going to
          college in the fall. C'mon. Open hatch.
          Baby bird. Eat your vitamins.

She pokes at his mouth with it.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Let me in. Boop. Beep. Bop.

                    VOICE (O.S.)
          Margot Chapman as I live and breathe.

REVEAL a townie in an Islanders shirt. Margot forces a smile.

                    MARGOT
          Hi, Travis.

Travis is drunk. Which makes it hard to pretend he's not
heartbroken and angry.

                    TRAVIS
          I thought you died or something
          cause I suddenly stopped hearing
          from you.

Percy watches with relief, thankful for the distraction.

                    MARGOT
          Nope. Still alive, still thriving.

                    TRAVIS
          I don't know if you heard...

He holds up his hand, showing off a wedding band.

                    MARGOT
              (genuine)
          Hey, that's great! Congratulations.
          I'm really happy for you.

                    PERCY
          Congratulations.

Travis looks at Percy, trying to get a beat on him.

                    TRAVIS
          Anyway, your little disappearing
          act was the best thing that ever
          happened to me.

                    MARGOT
          Well it sounds like you're doing
          great. It was great catching up.
                                                         39.


                    TRAVIS
          Big time. She's fucking amazing.
          She speaks three languages and
          she's hot as fuck. She's so fucking
          hot it's like I don't even know why
          she's with me. The sex is
          incredible, too. Hottest girl I've
          ever been with.

                    MARGOT
          That's great. Is she easy to clean?
          Is her vagina dishwasher safe?

                    TRAVIS
          No, she's a real person. Unlike you.

                    MARGOT
          What part of Russia did they mail her from?

                    TRAVIS
          Best of all, when I told her I
          loved her, she said it back instead
          of running away like a coward.

                    MARGOT
          That must have been an exciting second date.

                    TRAVIS
              (to Percy)
          Careful with this one. She's slippery.

Travis staggers away. Margot gulps her drink.

                    PERCY
          Can I ask you a question?

                    MARGOT
          What?

                    PERCY
          Is that your ex boyfriend?

                    MARGOT
              (laughs)
          Travis? Uh, no. More of a friend.

                    PERCY
          Really? Cause it seems you don't like him.

                    MARGOT
          You met him. Did you like him?

                    PERCY
          I didn't have sex with him.
                                                       40.


Beat.

                    MARGOT
          Want to? I can call him back over.

                    PERCY
          I just don't understand why you'd
          have sex with someone you don't like.

                    MARGOT
              (thrown)
          Because I was drunk. Or lonely. Or
          sad. And it was Christmas. Okay? I
          don't know, who gives a fuck? Let's
          just have fun.

Margot downs the rest of her drink.

                    PERCY
          Do you need alcohol to have fun?

Beat. Margot glares at Percy.

                    MARGOT
          Some nights I don't drink at all. I
          just get super high.

                    PERCY
          Hmm. Can I ask you a question?

Margot loses it.

                    MARGOT
          You don't have to ask me if you can
          ask me a question every time, dude.
          Just ask the fucking question.

                    PERCY
          I'm just trying to get to know you.

Margot looks out the window, clocks the empty beach.

                    WAITRESS
          Another virgin daquieri?

                    PERCY
          Yes, please.

                    MARGOT
          No. We're leaving. Pay the bill and
          meet me outside.

                    PERCY
          Where are we going?
                                                          41.


EXT. BEACH - ENTRANCE - MOMENTS LATER

They walk on to the beach.

                    MARGOT
          I had a lot to drink in there, I
          think I'm drunk.

Percy looks around.

                    PERCY
          I think it's closed.
              (off sign)
          Yup. After 8. Closed.

                    MARGOT
          Good. We'll have it to ourselves.

                    PERCY
          We could get in trouble. And it's
          not even sunny.

                    MARGOT
          This is better. Nobody can see us.

                    PERCY
              (worried)
          Yeah, there's no lifeguards.

                    MARGOT
          Good. We can skinny dip.

Margot hooks her fingers in his belt loops, draws Percy
closer.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Let's get you out of these jean shorts.

                    PERCY
          What about riptides?

                    MARGOT
          You're right, here comes one now.

Margot gives his shorts a tug.

                    PERCY
          Careful! You're gonna rip them.

He pulls them up.

                    MARGOT
              (flirty)
          Yeah, I am.
                                                        42.


                    PERCY
          They were a gift.

                    MARGOT
          From who, Richard Simmons?

                    PERCY
          No, my mom.

                     MARGOT
              (tugs)
          C'mon. I wanna see your pussy.

                    PERCY
              (conflicted)
          I don't know...

Margot gives up, lets go. Tries another tactic.

                    MARGOT
          Guess you're just not attracted to me. Or
          maybe you think I'm ugly...

                      PERCY
          What? No.

                    MARGOT
          Seems like it.

                    PERCY
          I don't!
              (quiet)
          I think you're really pretty.

                      MARGOT
          Yeah?

Sensing an opening, she moves closer to him.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Pretty where?
              (takes off her shirt)
          Pretty here?
              (slips off shorts)
          Or pretty here?

She stands before him naked for a beat, then runs into the
water. [note: lit and shot respectfully, of course]

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
              (calls out from sea)
          Nothing bad will happen. I promise.

Percy deliberates. Margot in the water does look inviting.
                                                          43.


                    PERCY
          What about sharks?

                       MARGOT
          None here!

                       PERCY
          Jellyfish?

                    MARGOT
          Out of season!

                    PERCY
          Flesh eating bacter--

                    MARGOT
          GET THE FUCK IN HERE RIGHT NOW!

                    PERCY
          Okay, I'm going to trust you.

He quickly undresses (leaving on his glasses) and doggy
paddles out to her.

                    MARGOT
          See? That's not so bad, right?

She puts her arms around him.

                    PERCY
          I just hope there's no riptides.

Margot moves in to kiss him when --

                    VOICE (O.S.)
          FUCK HER! FUCK HER IN THE BUTT!

ON THE BEACH

THREE PREPPY TEENS (two boys and a girl) watching and
whooping and drinking beers.

IN THE WATER

                    PERCY
          What're they doing?

                    MARGOT
          I don't know.
              (waves)
          Hello!

The leader waves back, a stupid grin on his face.
                                                         44.


                    LEADER
          Whatcha up to over there?

                    MARGOT
              (shouting back)
          Just doing our taxes.

                    LEADER
              (points to their clothes)
          These yours?

                    MARGOT
          Yeah, no need to fold `em.

Loud giggling as the Teens pick up their clothes.

                    PERCY
          They're taking our clothes!

                    MARGOT
          Put it down!

                    SIDEKICK
          Eat this dick!

The LEADER puts Percy's jean shorts on his head like a
jester, does a jester dance.

                    MARGOT
          I'm warning you!

                    GIRL
          Bye, sea bitch!

The three leave with their clothes, their laughter fading
away as they disappear down the shore. Percy freaks. Any
chance of sex is now gone.

                    PERCY
          You said nothing would happen! We
          need to find an adult.

                    MARGOT
          Percy, you are an adult.

As he considers this, Margot begins to swim away.

                    PERCY
          Where are you going?!

She POWER STROKES parallel to the shore. She's a great
swimmer.

FARTHER DOWN THE BEACH
                                                        45.


The Teens walk along, going through their haul. The Leader
pulls a condom from Margot's shorts.

                     LEADER
          Jackpot.

They don't notice an enraged Margot emerging from the water,
buck naked. She scoops up a fistful of sand.

                    MARGOT
          C'mere, cunts.

They turn, surprised to find a soaking wet angry naked woman
quickly approaching. Margot is fearsome.

                     SIDEKICK
          Oh shit-

Margot HURLS the SAND in his face.

                     SIDEKICK (CONT'D)
          OW!

He grabs his eyes, drops the clothes.

                    GIRL
          Whoa, whoa, relax-

                    MARGOT
              (to the girl)
          What about you? You want the business?

Margot KICKS the girl HARD in the crotch.

She groans in pain, drops to her knees. Two down. Only the
Leader left. Margot retrieves her bikini top and brandishes
it like a whip.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          You think it's cool to steal clothes?

                    LEADER
              (points to girl)
          It was her idea! I don't want the
          business!

She reaches for his head. He flinches. She grabs the shorts.

                    MARGOT
          These jean shorts were a gift!

                    LEADER
          I didn't know! I'm sorry.
                                                        46.


                    MARGOT
          Now get outta here!

They just stand there, in shock. Margot raises the back of
her hand.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          You want a fresh one?

They stagger away among murmurs of "crazy" and "sea bitch."

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          And stay outta Montauk!

IN THE WATER

Percy watches Margot approach with their belongings. She
drops them on the sand before returning to the water. She
paddles over to Percy.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          So where were we?

She puts her arms around his shoulders, tries to kiss him.

                    PERCY
          What happened over there?

                    MARGOT
          I got our clothes back.

She goes to kiss him again. He pushes her away.

                    PERCY
          Did you beat up those kids?

                    MARGOT
          No. They apologized.

                    PERCY
          I heard screaming.

                    MARGOT
          That was the apologizing.

                    PERCY
          I don't like this. Something's
          really wrong with you.

                    MARGOT
          They had our clothes, keys, phones,
          wallets. I got them back. What
          would you have done, nothing? You
          should be thanking me!
                                                        47.


                    PERCY
              (high-pitched)
          I was coming up with a plan!

                    MARGOT
          A plan to call your parents?
              (mocking)
          "Mommy, Daddy, teens stole my denim
          panties!"
              (then, sweet)
          I'm sorry, that was mean. Let's
          fuck.

                      PERCY
          ... No?

Margot smacks the water in frustration.

                      MARGOT
          WHY NOT!?

                    PERCY
          Because you're scary! It's like
          you're trying to eat me or kill me.

                    MARGOT
          What a waste of time, man. I feel
          sorry for you. I'm done.

She swims towards shore.

                    PERCY
          I feel sorry for you. You drive a
          freaking lobster car.

                    MARGOT
          Hey, at least I'm not scared to drive.

She picks up the pile of clothes and heads to the car. Percy
emerges from the water,

PARKING LOT

Margot gets to the claw car, throws Percy's clothes on the
passenger seat. She gets in and gets dressed. Percy, naked,
runs up to her door, tries it -- it's locked.

                    PERCY
              (bangs on window)
          Gimme my clothes!

Margot tosses his clothes out to him. He picks up his shorts,
feels the pockets.
                                                        48.


                        PERCY (CONT'D)
             Where's my phone?
                 (then)
             Is it in your car?

                       MARGOT
                 (quick look)
             Nope.

                       PERCY
             You barely even looked!

                       MARGOT
             It's not in here, Percy.

                       PERCY
             Just check! My parents need to be
             able to know where I am.

                       MARGOT
                 (blows up)
             Why? What if they don't?!

Margot doesn't wait for an answer, throws the car in reverse.
Percy instinctively jumps on the hood, still naked. A
determination we haven't seen before.

                       PERCY
             Gimme my phone!

                       MARGOT
             Percy, get off the hood.

                       PERCY
             Not until I get my phone.

                       MARGOT
             Guess we're doing this.

She throws the car into gear and slowly drives across the
parking lot with Percy on the hood. She exits on to a --

SERVICE ROAD

They pass several people who look on in amazement.

                       MARGOT (CONT'D)
             I will drive to fucking Chicago.
             Don't fucking test me.

She picks up speed, 15... 20...25. A curve up ahead, then:

HEADLIGHTS
                                                        49.


An 18 WHEELER blows by, inches from the car. Percy SCREAMS.

                     MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Oh shit.

                    PERCY
          Let me off! Let me off!

                    MARGOT
              (shaken)
          Yup! I'm pulling over

More HEADLIGHTS approach. They belong to

A POLICE CAR

Going the other way. The COPS clock the bizarre scene of a
naked teenager on a lobster car hood.

FLASHING LIGHTS

                     MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Fuck!

The POLICE CAR hits the brakes, begins executing a three-
point-turn on the narrow country road.

Margot slams the steering wheel in frustration. It's over.

                     MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Idiot!

She starts to slow down a flashing red light and ringing bell
announce a train approaching up ahead.

Margot checks her rearview mirror to find the COP CAR
struggling with the turn. Then back at the crossing gates.

The COP CAR finally rights itself, speeds towards Margot.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
              (thinks, then)
          I'm on probation, I can't lose my
          license!

MARGOT FLOORS IT.

Percy SCREAMS as the lobster car RACES towards the descending
gates. Percy looks back, sees the gates dropping.

                    PERCY
          What the fuck are you doing!?
                                                           50.


The CLAW CAR accelerates across the tracks just under the
closing gates. Margot brakes. Percy still clings to the
hood, eyes shut tight. He slowly opens them, looks around.

Percy then looks at Margot, almost in awe.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          Holy fucking shit.


INT. MARGOT'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Percy, still high from their close call, excitedly peaks
through the blinds facing the street.

                    PERCY
          I don't see any cops out there.    I
          think we lost them!

Margot pulls a candle from a drawer, lights it.

                    MARGOT
          Are you sure? Keep looking.

                     PERCY
          I can't believe we drove across the
          train tracks. I thought we were
          gonna die!

                    MARGOT
          You were really brave, holding onto
          the hood like that. Most guys would
          have fallen off. But not you.
              (downs her drink)
          We need music.

                       PERCY
          Yeah!
              (then)
          What? Why?

Margot exits the room. Percy sits down on the couch, takes a
look around the space.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
              (calls out)
          I like your house! Cozy.

                    MARGOT (O.S.)
          Thanks! The bedroom's the best
          part. I'll show it to you later.

Suddenly music starts BLASTING.
                                                           51.


Margot re-enters holding a bluetooth speaker. She sets the
speaker down, starts grooving to the music.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          DANCE PARTY!

Margot grooves around him. She's weird and uninhibited. He
bobs his head, trying to look supportive.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Dance with me!

Percy shakes his head no, still bobbing supportively. Margot
pulls Percy to his feet.

                    PERCY
          Okay, okay, you got me. I'm dancing.

Percy bobs his head. Margot sways closer and closer to him,
syncing up with his bobbing. She pulls him in and they bob as
one for a couple beats. He sits back down. She turns off the
music.

                     MARGOT
          WHEWW!
              (then)
          You wanna see the bedroom?

                    PERCY
          Maybe in a little bit.

Percy nervously scratches his neck. Margot takes Percy's
glasses off.

                    MARGOT
          We can go slow.

                    PERCY
          Mm hmm. The slower the sexier.

He itches his cheek. He scratches his armpit. He scratches
his back.

                      MARGOT
          You okay?

                    PERCY
          Yeah, I'm a little itchy.

She studies his neck.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          Does it look weird?
                                                        52.


                          MARGOT
             It's fine.

                       PERCY
             My back itches, too.

She lifts up his shirt, exposing his back, covered in hives.

                          MARGOT
             Jesus.

He stands, checks himself out in the mirror.

                       PERCY
                 (mortified)
             Oh God.

                       MARGOT
             People normally get rashes after
             they have sex.

                       PERCY
             This happens sometimes when I get
             nervous. I'm sorry.

There will be no sex tonight. They sit quietly as Percy
scratches himself. She looks at him for a beat, stands up.

                       MARGOT
             I'll be right back.

She exits.

LIVING ROOM - LATER

They're on the couch. Margot is applying anti-itch cream to
Percy's back.

                       MARGOT (CONT'D)
             This is for surf board rash, but it
             should do the trick.

                       PERCY
             I'm so embarrassed.

                       MARGOT
             Don't be. I went as a baby to a
             Halloween party. My crush was
             there. And as we were hooking up we
             both realized that I had gotten a
             diaper rash from my costume. I was
             26.
                                                    53.


                    PERCY
          You didn't wear underwear?

                    MARGOT
          Diapers are underwear.

                    PERCY
          No, they're not. Diapers are like
          wearable toilets.

                    MARGOT
          Well I didn't use it.

They laugh.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          There's a smile. You should smile
          more. You have a great smile.

                    PERCY
          I don't have a lot to smile about. I'm
          really fucked up.

                     MARGOT
          Oh you're the one? I read about you.
              (then)
          Come on, Percy. Everyone's fucked up.

                    PERCY
          I hate leaving my room.

                    MARGOT
          I've lived in this house my whole life.

                    PERCY
          You've lived in one house in one
          town? You're like a character in a
          children's book.

                    MARGOT
              (smiles)
          I love it here. People look after
          each other. There's a community.

                    PERCY
          Yeah, I guess that makes sense.

                    MARGOT
          I did leave once. Packed my life
          into my car and drove across the
          country to surf every beach in
          California.
                                              54.


          PERCY
You drove across the country alone?!

          MARGOT
Yeah. I wanted to do something
totally new.

          PERCY
Weren't you scared of getting murdered?

          MARGOT
I was eighteen, I didn't really
think about it.

          PERCY
That's all I think about.

          MARGOT
I made this special surfboard. It
had a map of every California beach
I was going to surf.

          PERCY
    (impressed)
You surfed every beach in California?

          MARGOT
Oh, no. I only made it as far as
Colorado and turned back.

          PERCY
After all that you turned back?! Why?

          MARGOT
My mom got sick. I had to take care
of her.

          PERCY
Why couldn't your dad do it?

          MARGOT
Because he was in the city with his family.

          PERCY
    (realizing)
Ohhh. So your mom--

           MARGOT
Was his receptionist...
    (then)
It was a mess. He disappeared. Had
his lawyers clean it up. They gave my
mom this house for us to go away.
           (MORE)
                                                        55.

                     MARGOT (CONT'D)
              (then)
          Lift up your arms.

She applies cream under his arms.

                    PERCY
          Well I'm adopted.

                    MARGOT
          Oh yeah? How's that been?

                    PERCY
          How much time do you have?

She smiles.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          It's complicated. Probably why I
          spend so much time alone. Having
          Jean in my life helps.

                    MARGOT
          Who?

                    PERCY
          My old nanny. Jean basically raised
          me. You guys kinda remind me of
          each other. You guys should meet!

                     MARGOT
          Yeah, maybe.
              (then)
          Turn around.

Percy turns and faces Margot. She applies cream to his chest.

                    PERCY
          Sorry I couldn't have sex with you
          today. I know I'm being a tease.

                    MARGOT
          ... That's okay.

                    PERCY
          Maybe we can spend the day together
          tomorrow? Then I promise I'll put out.

Margot hides a laugh.

                    MARGOT
          Okay.
                                                          56.


EXT. STREET - DAY

Percy and Margot bike/rollerblade with rescue dogs pulling
them on leashes.


EXT. PARK - DAY

Margot and Percy play keep-away from the dogs with a tennis
ball, throw it back and forth as the pack chases them.


INT. BEST FRIENDS - DAY

Margot and Percy shampoo dogs. Crispin watches them laughing
together.


INT. ARCADE - LATER

- They play skee-ball. Percy hits the center ring. Tickets
fly out.

- They sit inside a TWO-PLAYER Halo-type fighting game.

CLOSE ON

Percy's avatar decapitates Margot's avatar.

                        PERCY
             Sorry.

POP-A-SHOT

Percy shoots. Margot blocks him.

                       MARGOT
             Now we're even.


INT. ARCADE - DAY

They play Dance Dance Revolution together, dancing in sync.

TICKET COUNTER -      LATER

They dump their tickets on the counter and scan their prize
choices.


EXT. ARCADE - LATER

They sit on a bench. Margot wears a novelty beer helmet with
two sodas in it, a STUFFED PANDA at her feet.
                                                         57.


Percy reaches into his bag of prizes, pulls out a Nerf
football, continues digging.

                    PERCY
          Alright, I have a prize for both of
          us. Close your eyes.
              (she does)
          And stick out your finger.
              (she does)
          Now you're stuck with me forever.

Margot opens her eyes. Looks down to see her finger in a --

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          Chinese finger trap!

                      MARGOT
          Ha.

She yanks her finger, pulling Percy's hand with it.

                      PERCY
          Wait.

Margot pulls again.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          Stop pulling away.

                    MARGOT
          You're pushing.

                    PERCY
          Yeah, you need me to get out, you
          can't do it alone. Push in.

She pushes in. Their fingers easily slide out.

                      PERCY (CONT'D)
          See?

                    MARGOT
          Yeah, but you can't just Chinese
          finger trap someone. It's fucked
          up.

They sit there for a beat, quiet.

                    PERCY
          I bet if we went to high school
          together we'd be friends?

                    MARGOT
          Uh, yeah. Don't you?
                                                      58.


                     PERCY
          I didn't have a lot friends. I didn't
          go to dances or anything.
              (then)
          I bet you were Prom Queen or something.

                    MARGOT
          I didn't even go to prom.

                    PERCY
          Nobody asked you?!

                    MARGOT
          Everyone asked me. And I had a date
          and a dress and everything. Just
          didn't work out.

                       PERCY
          Why?
              (pause)
          Sorry. It's none of my business.

Beat.

                    MARGOT
          I wrote my biological father. I had
          this fantasy he would read it and
          then drive over and apologize to my
          mom and me for leaving us. And then
          the morning of prom I got the letter
          returned to me. It was unopened.
          After that, I couldn't go to Prom. I
          couldn't do anything for a while. I
          told my date I was sick and just
          stayed home and cried.

                    PERCY
          Sounds like we'd be friends.

She laughs.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          Would you ever reach out to your dad?

                    MARGOT
          Pfft. Fuck no. He left, he can reach out.

Percy has a strange look on his face.

                       MARGOT (CONT'D)
          What?

Percy kisses Margot.
                                                          59.


It's a long kiss. And a weird kiss as his eyes stay wide
open. But it's sweet. They pull apart. Percy wipes his mouth
with the back of his hand.

                     PERCY
           Sorry if that was too wet.

                     MARGOT
           No, don't apologize. That was
           perfect wetness. You're a great
           kisser. So do you want to-

BUZZZZZ.

                     PERCY
               (checking phone)
           Oh Jean's here!

                     MARGOT
           Who?

                     PERCY
           My nanny, remember?
               (Raeding)
           "Meet at the ice cream stand."

                     MARGOT
           I don't have much time before I have
           to bartend. I thought we could go
           back to my place.

                     PERCY
           We have all summer. Come on!

He takes her by the hand.


EXT. ICE CREAM STAND - DAY

Margot and Percy approach the stand. Percy lights up.

                     PERCY
           Jean! Jean!

An ELDERLY WOMAN turns towards them.

                     MARGOT
           It's so nice to--

She walks right past Margot revealing a MAN in his 30s,
athletic, older brother vibes. He points at Percy.

                     JEAN
           What's happening, Big Time?
                                                         60.


Percy and Jean execute an elaborate handshake. He turns to
Margot, smiles warmly.

                    JEAN (CONT'D)
          So this is the famous Margot.
          I've heard a lot about you.

                    PERCY
              (blushes)
          Aw, Jean! C'mon, man.

                    MARGOT
              (confused)
          And you're... Jean? Percy's nanny?

                    JEAN
              (good-natured)
          Mr. Mary Poppins.

Percy laughs. Margot laughs nervously.

                    JEAN (CONT'D)
          Who wants ice cream?

LATER

Margot and Jean stroll down the pier eating ice cream.

                    JEAN (CONT'D)
          It was just a couple summers during
          college when Percy was in middle
          school. Our parents are friends.
          But we stayed close. We've become
          friends and I care about him a lot.

Pull back to REVEAL Percy is holding Margot's hand as the
three of them walk. Margot looks extremely uncomfortable.

                    PERCY
              (licks ice cream cone)
          Jean's like my older brother.

                    MARGOT
          That's great. How old are you?

                    JEAN
          Twenty-seven. You?

                    MARGOT
          Yeah.
              (quickly, to Percy)
          Show Jean what we won at the arcade.

Percy digs into the prize bag, pulls out the Nerf football.
                                                        61.


                    PERCY
          Check it out, Jean.    Margot won it.

                     Jean
          Nice, Margot!
              (then)
          Remember, Percy? Flagpole pattern,
          go long!

Percy darts away to receive the pass. Jean chucks the
football way past Percy. It rolls off the boardwalk and down
onto the sandy beach.

                    PERCY
          I'll get it!

Percy races off.

                    MARGOT
          He's so fast. Little motor on that guy.

Jean turns back to Margot, no longer smiling.

                    JEAN
          What do you want?

                       MARGOT
          Excuse me?

                    JEAN
          It's his parents' money, not his.

                       MARGOT
          No!

                    JEAN
          You like little kids or something?

                    MARGOT
          Do I like little kids? You're a
          fucking male nanny, bro.

                    JEAN
          It was a summer job. And men can be
          nannies.

                    MARGOT
          They can. But they shouldn't. Cause it's
          weird.

                    JEAN
          This isn't about me.
                                                        62.


                    MARGOT
          Are you even allowed to be here?
          There's middle school a hundred
          yards away.

                    JEAN
              (not biting)
          What do you want from him?

                    MARGOT
          Same thing as you. I wanna date him.

                    JEAN
              (darkens)
          Did Percy tell you I work for the
          government now?

                    MARGOT
          Lemme guess: child services?

                    JEAN
          I don't know what you're doing with
          him. But if you hurt him, I will
          hurt you.

He stares her down as Percy returns with the football, out of
breath.

                    PERCY
          I had to wrestle a dog for it, but
          I got it.


INT. MARGOT'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Sara and Henry are sitting on the couch.

                    MARGOT (O.S.)
          Okay, ready? I'm gonna bring it out.

Margot enters holding a NURSERY MOBILE with a dozen handmade
surfboards.

                    SARA
          Oh my god, Margot! You made this?

                    MARGOT
          Yeah, figured it might help get
          them into surfing early.

Henry examines one of the little surfboards.
                                                        63.


                    HENRY
              (concerned)
          This one has a shark bite.

                    SARA
          Let's try it out!

                    MARGOT
          I think I have batteries somewhere.

KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Margot searches through her drawers. Takes out some plastic
bins, looks under some papers. A letter catches her eye. She
picks it up. It's the returned letter from her father.

KNOCK KNOCK KNOCK

Margot snaps to, sees a MAN -- 30, slicked-back hair, pleated
slacks, dress shirt and tasseled loafer -- smiling and waving
at her back door. She opens it.

                    MAN
          Margot!

                    MARGOT
              (at a loss)
          I'm sorry. Have we-- uh--

                    MAN
          It's Doug Hines! We went to high
          school together.

Margot stares, trying to place him.

                    DOUG
          I ran varsity track? Drove that
          cherry red Miata? Nothing?
              (then, reluctant)
          I had sex with Mrs. Walsh, the
          Spanish teacher.

                    MARGOT
          Doug Hines! Yeah, you were on tv.
          Didn't Mrs. Walsh go to jail?

                    DOUG
          Mrs. Hines did. Then we got married.

He flashes a wedding ring.
                                                        64.


                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          But, ya know, they never run that
          story. It's a double standard, too.
          I'm sure you date older guys.

                    MARGOT
          Actually, I only date teenagers.

                    DOUG
          Hey, have you been hanging out with
          my wife?!

They share a laugh.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
          Anyway, so I'm a realtor now. I
          don't have to tell you this is a
          fabulous neighborhood. A half acre
          on this street? Name your price.

                    MARGOT
          I have company, but it was good
          catching up, Doug.

She starts to shut the door. He puts his foot to stop it.

                    DOUG
          Hear me out.

                      MARGOT
          Why?

                    DOUG
          Because if you don't pay off your
          lien, the county will fire sale it.
          You'll might get half of what this
          place is worth. Let me list it so
          you can get full price.

Margot slams the door. We HEAR Doug through it.

                    DOUG (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          Hasta la vista, Margot! I'll slide
          my card under.

She picks up the card up and tosses it and exits.

We HEAR the opening of Supertramp's Breakfast in America.
"Take a look at my girlfriend..."
                                                           65.


INT. PERCY'S ROOM - DAY

The music continues as Percy puts a tuxedo on. He checks
himself out in front of a mirror, adjusts his bow time.


INT. MARGOT'S BEDROOM - SAME

Margot pulls out an old PROM DRESS, still in its plastic.


INT. LIMO - NIGHT

Margot and Percy sit in the back of a stretch limousine.

                    PERCY
          Was this a stupid idea?

                    MARGOT
              (smiles, touched)
          No, I love it. We're finally going to prom.

                     PERCY
              (nods)
          I have something for you.

He pulls a corsage from his inside jacket pocket, puts it
around her wrist. She's touched.

She opens her purse, produces a white carnation and pins it
on Percy's lapel.

                    MARGOT
          It's from my garden.

They both sit there.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          You look very handsome.

                       PERCY
          So do you.

Beat. She takes his hand.


EXT. BOSTWICK YACHT CLUB - HOSTESS STAND

Margot waits while Percy checks in with the hostess. She
peeks inside, clocks the dimly lit bar area where a mix of
moneyed older men and beautiful young women flirt. She eyes
them curiously.
                                                           66.


INT. YACHT CLUB RESTAURANT - LATER

Margot and Percy are halfway through their dinner. Margot is
laughing. They're having a good time.

                    MARGOT
          You're scared of the Meg? A
          dinosaur shark?

                    PERCY
          They existed. And we can't prove
          they're extinct.

                      VOICE (O.S.)
          Percy?

He looks up to see NATALIE, 17, Asian, friendly and cute.

                    PERCY
          Natalie, hey!

He gets up. They hug awkwardly. Margot clocks a possible
rival.

                    NATALIE
          I haven't seen you in forever. My
          parents said you're going to Princeton?

                      PERCY
          Yup!

                    NATALIE
          I'm applying too, for next year!
          How funny would it be if we went
          there together!

                      MARGOT
          So funny.

                    PERCY
          Oh, sorry, this is Margot. Margot,
          this is Natalie. Our parents are
          friends.

                    NATALIE
          Nice to meet you. Are you friends
          with them too?

Margot gives her best fake smile.

                      MARGOT
          Nope!

Beat.
                                                        67.


                    PERCY
          What about you? Excited for senior year?

                    NATALIE
          Yeah, but I look at the freshman
          girls and I feel like...

Natalie tries thinking of the word, looks at Margot.

                    NATALIE (CONT'D)
          Like a million years old now.

Margot swirls her drink. Natalie's thrown by her presence.

                    NATALIE (CONT'D)
          Well, it was good to see you. I
          don't know what you're doing later
          but I'm going to a party. There'll
          be Princeton people there.

                    MARGOT
              (fake nice)
          We have plans, but thanks so much.

                     NATALIE
          Oh.
              (to Percy)
          I'll send you the address just in case.

                     MARGOT
          No need.

                    NATALIE
          Can't hurt.

                    MARGOT
              (pointed)
          Might hurt.

                     NATALIE
              (on her phone)
          And sent.
              (then)
          Nice meeting you, Miss Margot.

She walks away. Margot glares at her, turns back to Percy.

                    MARGOT
          Jeez, I don't recall ordering a
          phony bitch before our appetizers.

                    PERCY
          Natalie? She's like super nice.
                                                       68.


                    MARGOT
          I think she farted. Do you smell that?

                      PERCY
                (sniffs)
          No.

They eat for a bit.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          Did you know Princeton's only three
          hours from here?

                       MARGOT
          I did not.

                    PERCY
          Yeah. It's an easy trip. I could
          come back every weekend if I wanted
          to.

                    MARGOT
          Why would you want to?

                    PERCY
          ... To see you. Or you could visit me.

Percy studies Margot, sees how uncomfortable she is.

                    MARGOT
          Maybe. I don't really do long
          distance...

That's not the reaction he was hoping for.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Look, why don't we just get through
          prom together first. Then we can
          worry about all of that stuff.

                    PERCY
              (stung)
          I guess.

Percy stares at his plate, forlorn.

                    MARGOT
          You'll probably get sick of me, anyway.

                       PERCY
          I won't.
                                                      69.


                    MARGOT
          You don't know that. Maybe you end
          up wanting to hang out with someone
          your own age.

                          PERCY
          Like who?

                    MARGOT
              (shrugs)
          Fuck if I know. Natalie?

                    PERCY
          You just said she was a phony bitch.

                    MARGOT
          And you said she was super nice.
          No one knows anything.

                    PERCY
              (frustrated)
          I don't understand what you want.

                    MARGOT
          I want you to relax and have fun tonight.

Percy puts down his fork, stands.

                    PERCY
          I wanna go.


INT. LIMO - LATER

Percy and Margot sit across from each other.

                    MARGOT
          You alright?

                          PERCY
                 (cold)
          Yup.

                    MARGOT
          I don't want you to be mad at me.

                          PERCY
          I'm not.

                    MARGOT
          I just want to be realistic.

                          PERCY
          Me too.
                                                        70.


The limousine stops. Margot looks out the window.

HER POV

A fancy Hamptons estate.

                    MARGOT
          Where are we?

                    PERCY
          I need to hang out with people my
          own age. Like you said.

He exits the limo. Margot follows.

                    MARGOT
          I didn't mean tonight.

                    PERCY
          Then don't come.

                    MARGOT
              (sighs)
          It's a bunch of college kids.

                    PERCY
          There'll be high school kids too.

                    MARGOT
          Let's just go back to my house.

                    PERCY
          Do whatever you want. I need a drink.

Percy goes inside.

                    MARGOT
              (to herself)
          Drink?

Margo reluctantly goes in.


INT. HOUSE PARTY - CONTINUOUS

It's mostly TEENAGERS recording each other on their phones.
Other kids post videos of what they've just filmed. Some
partygoers are commenting on posts of the party, while others
comment on the comments. In the corner, a few hardcore kids
talk to each other without filming it.

Margot enters. Glances skitter between the Partygoers -- get
a load of her. They go back to their phones. She walks off.
                                                          71.


AT THE BAR

Margot spots Percy pouring himself a stiff drink. She heads
over. She picks up the bottle he just poured, examines it.

                       MARGOT
             This is vermouth.

                       PERCY
                 (annoyed, doubling down)
             I know! This is my drink.

He walks off. She sighs, spots a keg outside.

KEG AREA - MOMENTS LATER

Margot waits impatiently to fill up her red Solo cup as TWO
WHITE BOY "INFLUENCERS" record a Tik Tok video at the keg.

                       TEEN #1
                 (into camera)
             Yo, it's your boy Cameron B, kicking
             off the summer right, at a sick party
             in Montauk celebrating another "Mental
             Health Awareness Day".

                       TEEN #2
             Okay, now me.

He hands him his phone.

                       TEEN #1
             Ready.

IPHONE POV

                       TEEN #2
                 (into camera)
             Yo, it's me, Dash Gucci, and if you or
             someone you know is being bullied--

Margot enters frame and starts pumping the keg angrily.

                       TEEN #1
             Can you not do that while we're recording?

                       MARGOT
                 (pouring beer)
             I'm just trying to get a beer. At a party.

                       TEEN #1
                 (to camera)
             And that's what a bully looks like.
                                                         72.


He films Margot.

                     MARGOT
               (fake mortified)
           No, not the phone! Somebody help!
           I'm being filmed!

She rolls her eyes and leaves.


INT. HALLWAY - LATER

Margots wanders the party looking for Percy. She passes two
beefy JOCKS in matching "Rye Country Day Wrestling" shirts.
One taps her on the shoulder.

                     JOCK #1
           Hey, how old are you?

Margot stops, turns.

                     MARGOT
           That's not a nice question to ask a woman.

                     JOCK #2
           No disrespect. He loves cougars.

                        MARGOT
           Excuse me?

                     JOCK #1
           It's all good. I fuck with big cats.
           And I heard wine tastes sweeter when
           there's a little dust on the bottle.

                     JOCK #2
           Bro! My dad said that, too. And he
           legit owns a vineyard.

                     MARGOT
           Here's a better idea. Why don't you two
           climb in a wine barrel and blow each other.

Beat.   They exchange a shocked look.

                     JOCK #2
               (way too loud)
           Homophobes are not welcome at my party.

Margot looks around, gets self-conscious.

                     MARGOT
           I'm not-- I'm not homophobic.
                                                           73.


A PUNK GIRL suddenly appears holding a phone and filming
Margot. Margot jumps, surprised.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Where the fuck did you come from?

                    PUNK GIRL
          Is this the homophobe?

                    MARGOT
          Stop filming me! No comment.

                    JOCK #1
          That's her.
              (to Margot)
          Say it again.

The Jocks also pull out their phones and film her.

                    JOCK #2
          Say what you just said!

                    MARGOT
          NO COMMENT!

Margot hurries away.

STAIRCASE - LATER

Margot walks up the staircase, trying to get around a group
of ASIAN GIRLS sitting on the stairs looking at their phones.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Have you guys seen Percy?

                    ASIAN GIRL #1
          Wait are you his mom?

                    ASIAN GIRL #2
          That's Inez.

                    MARGOT
          What the fuck? How old do you think
          I am? Actually, don't answer that.

                    ASIAN GIRL #1
          He's with Natalie, upstairs.

                    ASIAN GIRL #2
          In the bedroom.

They all giggle. Margot's eyes go wide. She steps over the
girls and sprints up the stairs.
                                                          74.


                    ASIAN GIRLS
          Hey!/Watch it!

UPSTAIRS - CONTINUOUS

Margot looks around frantically. It's a long hallway with
lots of doors. People everywhere blocking her way. She
bulldozes down the hallway.

                    MARGOT
          Move! Move! Move!

She FLINGS a FRAIL BOY aside. He cries out in pain.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Coming through!

She pushes TWO GIRLS aside, opens a door, bursts in.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Percy?!

A TEEN BOY alone on his phone. He looks up.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Sorry! Continue.

Margot shuts the door and runs down the hallway, opens
another door to find --

A BOY AND A GIRL, both on their phones. They look up. She
shuts the door, opens another.

THREE TEENS IN BED...on their phones. They all look up.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Does anybody fuck anymore?

She slams the door shut, tries another door, turns the
handle. Locked. She KNOCKS LOUDLY.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Percy?! Percy, open up!

She waits. Nothing. She jiggles the handle again

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Open the fucking door, Percy!
              (waits, then)
          If you don't open this door right
          now you're in big trouble!

A crowd of Teens watch.
                                                        75.


                    RANDOM TEEN
          Does his nanny have the power to
          ground him?

Desperate, she backs up and attempts to kick the door open,
but her leg goes through the door and lodges halfway in it.

We HEAR a GIRL'S SCREAM from inside the room. A dozen phones
begin filming.

                       MARGOT
          Damn it!

Margot awkwardly reaches her hand through the hole she's made
and unlocks the door from the inside. The door opens with
Margot still stuck in it.

HER POV

Percy and Natalie in bed, half naked.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          WHAT THE FUCK IS GOING ON IN HERE?

Margot struggles to pull her leg out, ripping her prom dress
out of the splintered door. She finally does and stomps over
to the bed.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Did you fuck him!?

Natalie is terrified

                    NATALIE
          No! I swear!

Margot, relieved, looks over at Percy, who is sitting up in
bed and dry-heaving. Natalie runs out.

                    PERCY
          The room is spinning.

                    MARGOT
          Percy, did you take something?
              (slaps him)
          Answer me! Pills? Powder?

                    PERCY
          I took a pill.

                       MARGOT
          Shit.

She leads to the master bathroom.
                                                           76.


                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Stick your finger down your throat
          and make yourself throw up.

                    PERCY
          I'm scared.

                    MARGOT
          Just do it, Percy!

He tries, but doesn't go nearly far enough.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Deeper, Percy.

                    PERCY
          I can't do it! Am I gonna die?

                    MARGOT
              (with conviction)
          Hold still. Open your mouth.

                    PERCY
          What're you--

She grabs the back of his head and jams her finger down his
throat. After a brief struggle, he vomits into the toilet.

                    MARGOT
          Do you feel better?

                     PERCY
          Not really.
              (then)
          I didn't know you can't drink on Advil.

                     MARGOT
              (stunned)
          Seriously?

                       JOCK #1 (O.S.)
          Found her!

Margot turns to see JOCK #1 with his PARENTS and several
partygoers in tow.

                    DAD
          That the homophobe?

                       JOCK #1
                 (pointing at Margot)
          Yup!
                                                           77.


                    MARGOT
          Your fucking parents are here?!

                    MOTHER
          You think our son would have a
          party without our consent?

                    DAD
              (gets in Margot's face)
          Apologize to my bisexual son.

                    MARGOT
          Fine, I don't care. I'm sorry.

                    DAD
          Now get out. You don't belong here.

The Dad takes Margot by the arm. She pulls her arm away.

                    MARGOT
          I don't belong here? You don't
          fucking belong here! YOU THINK
          YOU'RE MONTAUK?

                    PERCY (O.S.)
              (slurring, to Dad)
          You apologize to her!

REVEAL Percy.

He has his suit on, but not shirt or shoes. He holds on the
wall for support.

                    DAD
          Both of you out. Now.

The Dad takes Margot by the arm again.

                    MARGOT
          Step back. Step away from me.

                    PERCY
          Leave her alone!

Margot yanks her arm away. Percy drunkenly lurches at Margot
and the dad. Percy hauls back, takes a swing at Dad but
Margot steps in and takes the punch to her throat instead--

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          Margot! Shit--

                    MARGOT
              (clutching throat)
          Ahhhhhhssssshittt....!
                                                        78.


                    PERCY
          Margot!

Every Partygoer pulls out their phone to record.


INT. LIMO - MOMENTS LATER

They sit across from each other. She has a cold beer pressed
up against her throat. Percy sniffles.

                    MARGOT
              (voice raspy)
          Stop crying. I'm fine.

She cracks open the beer, takes a gulp.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
              (clears her throat)
          Just had to wet the whistle.

Percy gets up and sits beside her.

                    PERCY
          I just want you to know I would
          never hurt you.

                    MARGOT
          I know.

He kisses her. It quickly escalates.

                    PERCY
          I'm ready for you.

                    MARGOT
          Are you sure?

                    PERCY
          Yes.

Clothes start coming off.

                    MARGOT
          I have a condom in my purse.

She looks around for her purse.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Shit. I left it at the restaurant.

                    PERCY
          It's okay. I bought a value pack.
                                                           79.


He pulls out a box of 24 condoms from his jacket pocket.    She
slips out of her dress as he opens the value pack and
struggles to tear open a condom.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          I can't find where to tear it.

                    MARGOT
          Let me help.

She gently takes it and opens it as he watches her, drunk and
swooning. She removes the condom.

                    PERCY
          I love you.

She slides the condom back in the wrapper.

                     MARGOT
          Percy...

                    PERCY
          You don't have to say it back.     I
          just want you to know.

                    MARGOT
          You're drunk.

                     PERCY
          So?

                    MARGOT
          I don't think we should do this
          when you're drunk. Not for your
          first time.

                    PERCY
          But I'm ready.

                    MARGOT
          I think we should we wait.

                    PERCY
          If that's what you want.

He gazes adoringly at her.

                    MARGOT
          That's what I want.

He cuddles up to her, happy.    She's freaking out.
                                                           80.


EXT. BOSTWICK YACHT CLUB - DAY

Margot rollerblades up to the hostess stand. An OLDER HOST
looks her over.

                    MARGOT
          Hi, I left my purse here last
          night.

                    HOST
          Yes, you were dining with the
          younger gentleman. I think I saw it
          in the back. One moment.

Margot looks over at the bar to see Melanie (of the sugar
baby BMW) with a HANDSOME OLDER MAN. Margot just stares, her
face a mix of emotions.

                    HOST (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          Here's your purse. Ma'am?

                    MARGOT
              (snaps out of it)
          Oh. Thank you.

She looks back. Melanie catches her gaze. Margot quickly
looks away and rollerblades off.


INT. ALLISON AND LAIRD'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Percy shuffles in, hungover but happy. Allison and Laird
exchange a look. He sits down, butters some toast.

                    LAIRD
          Well look what the cat dragged in,
          Allison?

Allison smugly whisks her matcha.

                       ALLISON
          Fun night?

                    PERCY
          Actually yeah. Really fun.
              (checks his watch)
          Shoot. I'm gonna be late for work.

                    ALLISON
          You had a big night. Maybe went to
          a party?

                       PERCY
          I did.
                                                      81.


                    LAIRD
          I'll drive you.

                    PERCY
          Actually, can I drive? I was thinking
          about getting my license. I could use the
          practice.

                    LAIRD
          My son, the driver. That's great.

                    PERCY
          Yeah. If I have a car, it'll be
          easier to see my girlfriend more.

                    ALLISON
          Your girlfriend?

                    PERCY
          Margot, yeah. She's older, but
          she's really fun. And she doesn't
          want to do long distance so I'm not
          going to Princeton either.

Beat. Allison and Laird exchange a look.

                     LAIRD
          What.

                    PERCY
          I don't know, Margot's here, my
          work is here, Montauk has
          everything I need. It's paradise.

                    LAIRD
          Percy, you're going to Princeton.

                     PERCY
          I'm not.

                    ALLISON
          What would you do?

                    PERCY
          Work. Get a job.

                    LAIRD
          Absolutely not.

                    PERCY
          Here's a solution: I go to
          Princeton... online. From here.
          Everybody wins. Good, right?
                                                          82.


Laird presses his temples in an accupressure/meditation way.

                    ALLISON
              (to Percy)
          Why don't you wait in the car. Your
          father will be out in a second.

Percy exits. A beat, then.

                    LAIRD
          What the fuck was that?

                    ALLISON
          What do you think it was? He's
          obviously in love with her!


INT. GARAGE - TESLA - SAME

Percy sits in the driver's seat of his parent's Tesla Model
X. He tries out the controls, pretends to put an arm around
an imaginary Margot.

                    PERCY
              (to imaginary Margot)
          You relax. I'll drive. Also, I'm
          getting into surfing.

Percy makes engine sounds as he pretends to steer.


INT. KITCHEN - SAME

Allison paces. Laird also paces. They're both pacing in
circles, but different circles.

                    LAIRD
          She put this idea in his head. You
          know why? She's angling for the
          Tesla. Call her right now. I'm
          gonna yell at her.

                    ALLISON
          You're gonna yell at the only
          person Percy will listen to? We
          need her on our side. He's not
          going to listen to us. He needs to
          hear it from her.


INT. MARGOT'S HOUSE   - DAY

Margot lies on her bed, staring at the ceiling. Her phone
buzzes. It's Allison. Margot snaps out of her daze, answers.
                                                        83.


                     MARGOT
          I was about to call you. Listen, Percy
          has gotten too attached and I can't do
          this any--

INTERCUT W/ALLISON AND LAIRD

                    LAIRD
          Forget about that deal. The car is yours.

Margot sits up, surprised.

                      MARGOT
          Really?

                    LAIRD
          You've gotten him out of his shell,
          he's going to parties. He's
          confident. It's all we wanted.

                    MARGOT
          That's great!

                    LAIRD
          You just have to convince him to go
          to Princeton.

A look of guilt washes over Margot.

                    MARGOT
          Yeah. Okay.

                    ALLISON
          I have the title and transfer in my
          office. We'll sign it over to you
          today.

Margot exhales. Finally.

                    MARGOT
          Thanks, guys.


GARAGE - TESLA - SAME

Percy checks out the controls of the Tesla. He turns it on.


INT. KITCHEN - SAME

Margot cuts out on the call.

                    ALLISON
          Hello? Margot?
                                                        84.


GARAGE - TESLA - SAME

The car's bluetooth syncs. Margot's voice pipes in to the
cabin.

                    MARGOT (O.S.)
              (bluetooth)
          And everything you said about Percy
          is true. He's become a friend.
              (waits, get nothing)
          Hello?

Percy quickly turns off the car, in shock.


INT. KITCHEN - SAME

                    ALLISON
          Hello? Margot?


INT. GARAGE - TESLA - SAME

Percy sits in the car, gutted. He gets out of the Tesla and
goes back inside.


INT. KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Percy enters, sees Allison's phone on the counter. Unable to
resist, he quickly puts in her code and scrolls through the
text messages. His face falls as he reads.


INT. BEST FRIENDS - DAY

Percy lies on the floor, despondent. Crispin grooms an Afghan
Hound, a cigarette dangling from his lips.

                    PERCY
          I just want to die.

                    CRISPIN
          I got news for you, Percy. There's
          only one good female in this world.
              (to dog, baby talk)
          And it's you, Missy. Isn't it?
          Isn't it? Shu hsu hsu hsushu

The dog licks Crispin's face. He loves it.

                    PERCY
          She never liked me. She was just
          using me.
                                                        85.


                    CRISPIN
          Your problem is that you're too nice.

                    PERCY
          What do you mean "too nice?"

                    CRISPIN
          Yeah! Chicks dig an asshole. She
          walked all over you. I mean she was
          eye-fucking me that day you guys
          were shampooing dogs.
              (points to himself)
          Asshole.

Percy's phone buzzes. He checks it.

                    PERCY
          It's Margot. She wants to see me
          tonight. I don't know what to do.

                     CRISPIN
          Well you've come to the right
          person. As you know from our
          conversations, I've been with a
          plethora of women so I understand
          the mindset.
              (then)
          Does she have the car yet?

                    PERCY
          I don't think so.

                    CRISPIN
          It's very simple. She broke your
          heart. You break--

                       PERCY
          Her heart?

                    CRISPIN
          The car. That's what she cares
          about. I'm playing 3D chess, keep
          up. Nothing crazy. Break the
          antenna off. Crack a headlight.

Off Percy, an idea forming...


INT. PERCY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Percy locks his door, pulls out a bottle of vermouth, pours
it a coffee mug. He takes a swig, winces.
                                                           86.


INT. DINING ROOM - LATER

Percy and his parents are having dinner. It's quiet. Percy
fidgets at the table.

                       LAIRD
             Everything okay, bud?

                       PERCY
             Can I try some wine?

Allison exchanges a look with Laird.

                       ALLISON
             I think that would be fine. You're
             a young man now.

He fills his glass to the brim, gulps it down.

                       ALLISON (CONT'D)
             Okay.

The doorbell RINGS.

                       LAIRD
             Are we expecting someone?

                       ALLISON
             I don't think so.

FRONT DOOR

Laird opens the front door to find a surprised Margot. A
moment of terror passes between them.

Percy pops into frame with giant glass of wine.

                       PERCY
                 (cheerful)
             Did I double book?


INT. DINING ROOM - LATER

They eat in tense silence.

                       PERCY
             Mom, Dad, aren't you going to ask
             Margot about herself?

                       LAIRD
             Yeah, thanks Champ. So, Margot, where are
             you from originally?
                                                        87.


                    MARGOT
          Here. From here.

                    LAIRD
              (points to wall)
          See this stone work? All local stones.

                    MARGOT
          I thought I recognized them.

Laird and Allison fake laugh. Percy watches them like a hawk.
They go back to eating in silence.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Mm. Great chicken. Moist.

                    ALLISON
          Thank you. Conflict-free.

                    PERCY
          Mom, you didn't make it. Inez did.

                    LAIRD
          Be nice, Percy.

                    PERCY
          The food is conflict free, but the
          dinner isn't. Mom, maybe we can
          throw the leftovers under the
          stairs for Inez?

                    LAIRD
          Percy. Enough.

                    MARGOT
          Well, the important thing is that
          it's delicious.

                    PERCY
          I think the important thing is the truth.

Margot, Allison and Laird shift uncomfortably.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          Speaking of which, I didn't
          actually get the dates wrong. I
          wanted Margot here tonight. The
          truth is I wanted to introduce
          everyone, but I didn't know how to
          explain how old you are to my
          parents.

Beat. They all laugh nervously, relieved.
                                                           88.


                    MARGOT
          Well, I'm not that old. I know a
          guy who married our high school
          Spanish teacher. Forty year age
          difference.

                    LAIRD
          Well I hope he got an "A."

They laugh. Percy laughs a weird, bitter, angry laugh.

                    PERCY
          Mom, Dad, aren't you going to ask
          us how we met?

                    ALLISON
          Uh, yeah. How'd you meet?

                    LAIRD
          Was it an app?

                    PERCY
          Margot, you want to tell them?
          You know what, I'll tell them. It's
          actually really random. Margot came
          in to adopt a dog.

                    ALLISON
          Awww.

                    PERCY
          But I rejected her application
          because she was totally
          unqualified, but we still hit it
          off. In fact, I had to mace her to
          get her away from me and even that
          wouldn't stop her! She was so horny
          haha.

                    LAIRD
          Percy? Be a gentleman.

Percy's phone BUZZES.

                    PERCY
          It's Crispin. I have to take this.
          You guys keep getting to know each
          other.


EXT. DRIVEWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Crispin straddling a ten-speed. He's in a camo shirt and
shorts. As Percy walks up, he raises a duffle bag.
                                                           89.


                    CRISPIN
          I brought tools.

                    PERCY
          We're in the middle of dinner so we
          need to be fast.

                    CRISPIN
          What're you having?

                    PERCY
          Fish tacos. And salad.

                     CRISPIN
          I fucking love salad.
              (then)
          Okay, let's put her in neutral and
          roll her out.

GARAGE - MOMENTS LATER

Percy and Garett roll the Buick out. Percy looks back at the
house, nervously.

                    CRISPIN (CONT'D)
          Let's start with the side mirror.


INT. DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Allison, Laird and Margot stare at each other nervously.

                    ALLISON
          Did you tell him!?

                    MARGOT
          No! Did you?

                    LAIRD
          Of course not.

                    ALLISON
          Well, he must know.

                    MARGOT
          How can he know?

                    LAIRD
          Have you talked to him about
          Princeton yet?
                                                        90.


EXT. GARAGE - CONTINUOUS

Crispin pushes his weight on to the side mirror, trying to
break it off. No luck.

                       PERCY
          I'll try.

                    CRISPIN
          I'm way stronger. If I can't do it,
          it can't be done.

                    PERCY
          I'll kick it.

Percy kicks the mirror. Crispin joins in. Nothing.

                    CRISPIN
          This thing's a tank.

                       PERCY
          The tools!

                       CRISPIN
          Good idea.

Crispin pulls out a CROWBAR. He walks around the car, popping
the hubcaps off. He examines his handiwork.

                    CRISPIN (CONT'D)
          She's gonna hate not having hubcaps.

                       PERCY
          What else?

MOMENTS LATER

The CAR HOOD is up. Percy and Crispin examine it. Crispin is
holding SCISSORS.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          Which one's the brake wire?

                    CRISPIN
          No idea. We can cut every wire.

Crispin moves to cut a wire.

                    PERCY
          Wait. Isn't this dangerous?

                    CRISPIN
          Not as dangerous as playing with a
          man's heart.
                    (MORE)
                                                        91.

                      CRISPIN (CONT'D)
            Try pulling that shit in the Middle
            East.
                (picks up crowbar)
            We can smash the windows then.

                      PERCY
            They'll hear that.

Percy leans against the front of the car, thinks.

                      PERCY (CONT'D)
            Maybe this is a bad idea.

The Buick begins rolling backwards.

                      CRISPIN
            Percy.

                      PERCY
            No!

Crispin tries get a grip in order to slow the roll but can't.

                      CRISPIN
            It's not stopping!

He grabs hold of the side mirror and is finally able to slow
the car down. They both breathe a sigh of relief.

                      PERCY
            That could've been bad.

CRACK!

The side mirror BREAKS OFF

THE BUICK

Descends the steep driveway...

Gaining momentum...

SMASHING through the wooden gates...

Crossing the two lane highway...

And disappearing over the bluffs...

PERCY AND CRISPIN

Percy is motionless for a beat. Then a look of bewilderment
comes over his face. He shoots a puzzled look to Crispin.

MOMENTS LATER
                                                           92.


Percy and Crispin run to the cliff's edge and peer over.

THEIR POV

The Buick lies on the beach, upside down, one hundred feet
below. A smoldering heap of metal.

PERCY AND CRISPIN

They stand there in shock. Crispin turns to Percy.

                      CRISPIN
            That'll teach her.


INT. PERCY'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM -   MOMENTS LATER

Percy shuffles in, dazed.

                      LAIRD
            Hey! There he is.

Percy doesn't even answer, just grabs the wine bottle and
starts filling his glass.

                     ALLISON
            Everything okay?

Percy gives his dad a "thumbs up", fills the glass to the
brim, then downs the entire glass.

                      MARGOT
            You okay, Percy?

                      PERCY
                (catching his breath)
            I think I'm going to go lie down.

He gets up and walks out in a daze. Moments later, we hear
the muffled roar of guitar POWER CHORDS from upstairs.

                      MARGOT
                (to Laird and Allison)
            I'll go talk to him.

                      LAIRD
            Make sure to bring up Princeton.


INT. BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Margot knocks, enters. Percy kicks out a metal guitar riff,
fast, precise, punishing...
                                                           93.


                    MARGOT
          Percy? Can we talk?

He starts playing even faster. She unplugs the amp.

                    PERCY
          I wasn't done shredding.

                    MARGOT
          What just happened down there?

She sits on the edge of his bed. He puts the guitar down,
takes a shot of vermouth.

                    PERCY
          I'm addicted to this shit now. The
          dry kind's good too.

He sits beside Margot and immediately tries to kiss her.

                    MARGOT
          What are you doing?

                    PERCY
          Let's fuck.

                    MARGOT
          How about we talk?

                    PERCY
          Later.

Percy stands, begins unbuttoning his shorts.

                    MARGOT
          Percy, I'm trying to talk to you.

Percy starts pulling his shorts down. Margot grabs hold of
them and pulls them back up. A short struggle ensues until --

                    PERCY
          Ow, my wrist!

Percy gives up, lies down on the bed. Wounded teen energy.

                    MARGOT
          Sorry. I care about you, Percy. But
          I don't think we should do this.

                    PERCY
          Since when? Because you hit on me.
          You literally busted down the door
          to throw a girl out of bed so
          excuse me if I'm a little confused!
                                                          94.


Margot's conflicted. Unable to be honest, but doesn't want to
hurt him.

                       PERCY (CONT'D)
             If there's something I don't know,
             tell me. But if you want me to
             believe you actually care about me
             like you say you do...

He looks her in the eye, waiting for an answer he doesn't
want to hear.

                         PERCY (CONT'D)
             Well?

Long beat.

                       MARGOT
                 (quiet)
             Is this really what you want?

                         PERCY
             ... Yeah.

                       MARGOT
             This will make you happy?

                         PERCY
             Yup.

Long beat as Margot considers...

                       MARGOT
             Okay. Let's do it.

                         PERCY
             Great.

Percy gets under the covers. Margot joins him under the
covers. Clothes come off.

                         PERCY (CONT'D)
             Now what?

                       MARGOT
             Get on top.

Percy crawls on top of her. She studies his face, trying to
get a read on him. Percy starts thrusting.

                       MARGOT (CONT'D)
             Whoa. Slow down, cowboy. Let me
             help you in the saddle.
                                                       95.


Percy instead pumps faster.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Percy, wait, you're just stabbing
          my hip bone.

Percy is a jack-rabbit now.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Percy! You're not even-

                    PERCY
          GAAAAAAAH--

Percy rolls over, panting.

                      PERCY (CONT'D)
          I did it.

                    MARGOT
          Percy.... that was my thigh gap.

Margot grabs a STUFFED ANIMAL, wipes her thighs off.

                     PERCY
          By the way, your car's on the
          beach. Crispin and I sent it over
          the cliff.

                      MARGOT
          What?

                    PERCY
          Yeah. Sorry, but that's the price of
          deception. That's what Crispin said.

Margot's face falls as she realizes he knows.

                      MARGOT
          Percy...

                     PERCY
          It's just like every single other
          thing in my life -- planned by my
          parents.
              (then)
          I had some kind of stupid idea that
          you liked me. That we were friends.

                    MARGOT
          We are friends. No, that's the
          thing -- this is real.
                                                           96.


                    PERCY
          I'm too nice. I am. I put too much
          faith in people. I think the truth
          is you can't trust anybody.

                    MARGOT
              (in pain)
          Oh god.

                    PERCY
          I don't mean that in a bad way. Not
          like everyone is untrustworthy or
          something. Just like, don't expect
          anything. Don't expect anything and
          then you won't be disappointed.

He hands Margot her clothes. She slips them on under the
covers.

                    MARGOT
          It wasn't personal. I was just
          trying to save my house.

                    PERCY
          Feels personal to me.

                    MARGOT
          I was desperate.

                    PERCY
          Thanks. You should go.
              (unable to help himself)
          The truth is, one day I'll be
          living in Paris or something. And
          I'll come back to visit Montauk and
          you'll still be bartending or
          whatever. Because you're trash.
          Townie fucking white trash.

Margot just stares at him for a long beat, then --

                    MARGOT
          How much money do your parents
          have?

                    PERCY
          Why don't you ask them? I know you
          guys are close.

                    MARGOT
          But he's rich, right? You don't
          have to worry about money?

He shuts his eyes, fighting tears.
                                                          97.


                    PERCY
          And that makes my life amazing. I
          have no problems.

                    MARGOT
          I owe forty six thousand dollars in
          property taxes because people like
          your parents keep moving here. And
          I don't have a rich dad to help me.

Percy opens his eyes, turns to Margot and fixes her with a
hard stare.

                    PERCY
          Well, you do. He just doesn't want
          anything to do with you. And I
          don't blame him.

He immediately regrets his words.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          Wait. I didn't meant that. Margot,
          I'm sorry! Wait.

And with that, Margot leaves. Off Percy, alone.

                                              FADE TO BLACK.

Bright white sunlight streams into --


INT. MARGOT'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Margot awakes to the sound of BEEPING.


EXT. MARGOT'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Margot opens her front door to find Gary unloading the busted
up Buick in Margot's driveway. The side mirror is hanging by
the wiring. The hubcaps are gone. A huge spidercrack runs
across the windshield.

                    MARGOT
          What're you doing, Gary?
          This isn't my car!

                    GARY
              (checks paperwork)
          Your name's on the title.

                    MARGOT
          Well I don't want it.
                                                        98.


                    GARY
          Not my problem.

He unloads the Buicks, climbs back into the tow truck cab.

                    MARGOT
          What am I supposed to do with a car
          that doesn't run?

                    GARY
          Who said it doesn't run?

He tosses her the keys.

                     GARY (CONT'D)
          Those things are built to last.
              (still hurt)
          Unlike us.

He drives away. She looks at the keys in her hand.


EXT. SURF LODGE - NIGHT

Two girls exit the hot spot, freeze when they see --

The Buick. Held together by duct tape. Margot stands outside
it, smiling. She opens the back door like a chauffeur and
motions inside. The girls hesitantly get in and Margot has to
smash the car door shut several times to get it to close.


INT. BUICK - NIGHT

Margot Ubers a DRUNK COUPLE making out in her back seat. Her
phone BUZZES with a phone call. It's Percy. She hits ignore.


INT. PERCY'S ROOM - SAME

Percy sinks back into his bed. He puts headphones on, blinks
away tears.


INT. BUICK - ANOTHER DAY

Margot drives. We HEAR Percy's voice.

                    PERCY VOICEMAIL (O.S.)
          Hey, it's me. I really miss you.
          I'm sorry about what I said. I was
          just mad about the whole betrayal
          thing. It's probably my fault, I
          dunno.
                    (MORE)
                                                          99.

                     PERCY VOICEMAIL (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          I just wish we could talk about
          what happened. I'm just really
          confused. But sounds like maybe you
          don't want to. Um... okay, I miss
          you. I'm around.
              (then)
          It's Percy.

CLICK. Margot hits the trash icon. We hear "MESSAGE DELETED."
Another message comes on.

                    VOICEMAIL (O.S.)
          Yo, it's Frank. I had a lot of fun
          with you the other night. There's a
          new restaurant I wanna take you to
          called--

Margot hits a button. "MESSAGE DELETED."

                                              FADE TO BLACK.


INT. MARGOT'S HOUSE - DAY

Margot at her laptop, a spreadsheet open. The date tells us
we're now in mid-August. The DOORBELL rings.


I/E. MARGOT'S HOUSE - FRONT DOOR - MOMENTS LATER

Margot spies through the peephole, sees Jean standing there,
sighs then opens the door. He's in a suit.

                    MARGOT
          I knew it! Alright, let's hear it.
              (helping him along)
          "My name is Jean and I'm a
          registered-"

                    JEAN
          Remember when I said I worked for
          the government?

Beat. Margot looks at him, nervously.

                     MARGOT
          You CIA?

                    JEAN
          Worse.
              (hands her an envelops)
          IRS. And I have friends at the
          Suffolk County's assessor's office.
                    (MORE)
                                                       100.

                    JEAN (CONT'D)
          And your property taxes are going
          up. Way up.


INT. THE LOBSTER CLAW - NIGHT

Henry, Sara and Margot have a post-work nightcap at the bar.

                    MARGOT
          That old nanny really fucked me. I was
          on track too. I don't know what I'm
          gonna do next year.

                    HENRY
          Just sell it. Your place is way
          nicer than ours. You'll never have
          to worry about money again.

                    MARGOT
              (good-natured)
          Who would protect you from Sara?

Sara and Henry share a look.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          What's that look?

                    HENRY
          Sara has something she wants to
          tell you.

                    SARA
          Thanks, Henry.
              (sighs, to Margot)
          We're selling our house.

                    MARGOT
          Oh.

                    SARA
          We're moving to Florida. It's closer
          to Henry's parents. It'll be nice to
          have the help with the babies...

                    MARGOT
          You're selling?

                    HENRY
          This market is on fire. Remember Doug
          Hines? The guy with the red Miata who
          fucked the Spanish teacher? He's our
          broker. He's good.
                                                        101.


                    MARGOT
          You're letting these people run you
          out of town.

                    SARA
          We're choosing to move on with our
          lives. This is what makes sense for
          us.

                    MARGOT
          If you say so. My mom would have
          wanted me to fight for my house.

                    SARA
          Your mom wanted you to be happy.
          And you don't seem happy.

                    MARGOT
              (angry)
          I am happy!

                    SARA
          You'll figure it out. You always do.


INT. BOSTWICK YACHT CLUB - NIGHT

It's happy hour. Margot, dressed elegantly, sits at the bar
and looks around. Various YOUNG WOMEN with OLDER MEN populate
the restaurant.

A few of the older men look Margot's way, but she avoids
making any prolonged eye contact.

LATER

Margot sits at the bar, nursing a martini. The HANDSOME OLDER
MAN she saw with Melanie earlier comes in, bellies up to the
other side of the bar.

                    OLDER MAN
          Hey Jeff. The usual.

He pulls out the Wall Street Journal. Margot eyes him
intently. The Bartender comes over.

                    BARTENDER
          Anything else?

                    MARGOT
          Nope. And you can put this on his tab.

The bartender nods, brings the bill over to the older man and
whispers to him. He nods to the bartender and clocks Margot.
                                                       102.


She fixes her hair and downs her drink as he approaches.

                    OLDER MAN
              (off empty chair)
          May I?

She nods and he sits.

                      MARGOT
                (nervous)
          Hi.

                      OLDER MAN
                (smiles warmly)
          Hi.
              (then)
          Are you nervous?

                    MARGOT
          Actually, yeah.

                    OLDER MAN
          What's your name?

Beat. Margot just looks at him sadly.

                    OLDER MAN (CONT'D)
              (thrown)
          What's wrong?

                    MARGOT
          Guess I was hoping you'd recognize me.

He looks at her quizically.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Because I recognize you -- every
          time I run away from a mess I
          created. Every time I choose the
          easy way out and hurt somebody
          because of it.

She pulls out the letter, slides it over to him. His face
falls as he realizes.

                    OLDER MAN
              (off letter)
          So what are you here for? Money?

                    MARGOT
          No. I'm here for closure. I've been
          waiting for you to explain why you
          disappeared on us. Then I realized
          you were never going to do that.
                    (MORE)
                                                        103.

                     MARGOT (CONT'D)
          So I'm here to tell you I'm done
          waiting and I'm moving on with my
          life.
              (then)
          Thanks for the drinks.

She walks off.


EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Margot sits at her mother's grave, lost in thought.


EXT. MARGOT'S HOUSE - DAY

Margot pounds a FOR SALE sign into the front lawn.


INT. MARGOT'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

As Doug Hines points, Margot signs escrow papers.


INT. MARGOT'S HOUSE - DAY

Margot removes the photos of her and her mother off the wall
and puts them in bubblewrap.


EXT. MARGOT'S GARAGE - DAY

Margot pulls out her custom California map surfboard.


EXT. BODY SHOP - DAY

A mechanic pulls out the Buick. It's been completely fixed,
good as new. Margot smiles, impressed by the work. She gets
in, sees "Montauk Towing" directly across the street. Gary
walks to his truck.

                    MARGOT
              (to Mechanic)
          I'll be right back.

We stay in the car as Margot gets out and jogs over to Gary.

EXT. MONTAUK TOWING - MOMENTS LATER

Gary stiffens, nervously glances about at the sight of
Margot. Margot says something to him. Gary nods. She keeps
speaking to him. He looks down, nods some more. Margot now
hugs him. He hesitates, then hugs her back.
                                                       104.


INT. BEST FRIENDS - DAY

Crispin plays with Milo, the former drug dog. Margot enters.

                    MARGOT
          Hey. Is he here?

                    CRISPIN
          No. He quit.

                    MARGOT
              (deflates)
          He won't return my calls or texts.
          Will you tell him I was here?

                    CRISPIN
          Absolutely fucking not.

                    MARGOT
          Really?

                    CRISPIN
          Yeah. Really.

Margot nods, heads to the exit and opens the door.

                    MARGOT
              (yells back in store)
          COCAINE!

Milo goes insane, barking into Crispin's face.


EXT. LAIRD AND ALLISON'S HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DAY

Margot pulls up to the gate, hits the intercom.

                    MARGOT
          Hi, it's Margot. Can I talk to him?

                    ALLISON
          He's not home.

                    MARGOT
              (disappointed)
          Oh. Okay. I understand.

                     ALLISON
              (beat)
          But why don't you come up?

DRIVEWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Margot and Allison talk in the driveway.
                                                       105.


                    ALLISON (CONT'D)
          You wouldn't believe it. He's never
          home anymore. And he got his license.
          He's seeing someone.
              (whispers)
          He's not a virgin anymore.

                    MARGOT
          What kind of car did she get?

                    ALLISON
          About that. He's still pretty upset
          with us. Understandable.
              (introspective)
          Maybe sometimes we try to do too
          much for him.

                    MARGOT
          Nooooo.

                    ALLISON
          Am I detecting sarcasm?

                     MARGOT
          A little.
              (then)
          I'm glad to hear he's doing well.
          It's a relief.


EXT. MARGOT'S HOUSE - DAY

Henry, Sara and Fern help Margot finish loading up a U-Haul
trailer. Henry slides the trailer door closed.

                    HENRY
          That's the last of it.

                    MARGOT
          Thanks for helping me.

                    HENRY
          Thanks for giving us all your furniture.

Margot looks at the house.

                    SARA
          You want to take a last look? Make
          sure you didn't forget anything?
                                                       106.


INT. MARGOT'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Margot enters. Every single personal article now gone from
the room. She takes a last look around, then walks out the
door.


EXT. MARGOT'S HOUSE - DAY

As Margot watches the house recede in the side view mirror.


I/E. BUICK - DAY

Margot's at a traffic light with the U-Haul attached. She
spots Natalie crying on a bench. She's wearing a cocktail
dress and her makeup is running. Margot pulls over.


EXT. STREET - BENCH -    MOMENTS LATER

Margot walks up.

                    MARGOT
          What's wrong?

Natalie looks up, flinches. Margot sits down beside her.

                       MARGOT (CONT'D)
          You okay?

                    NATALIE
              (shakes her head)
          It's Percy.

                    MARGOT
              (alarmed)
          What happened?? Is he okay?

                    NATALIE
          No. He's an asshole!

                       MARGOT
              (beat)
          Percy?

                    NATALIE
          Ugh, we started hanging out a
          couple weeks ago. It was really
          fun. And... we ended up having sex.
          I thought he was my boyfriend. And
          then I found out he was talking to
          two other girls.
                                                      107.


                    MARGOT
          Again, this is Percy we're talking about?

                    NATALIE
          When I asked him about it he
          totally cut off contact. He just
          disappeared. He was never like
          this. I don't get it.

Margot deflates.

                    MARGOT
          This is my fault. I created a fuck
          boi.

                    NATALIE
          I feel like an idiot. I got all
          dressed up and he completely
          ignored me.

                    MARGOT
              (realizing)
          Just now?


INT. BUICK - MOMENTS LATER

Margot drives, Natalie rides shotgun.

                    NATALIE
          It's up here on the right.

Margot pulls over and parks. Shuts the engine off.

                     MARGOT
          I'm sorry about that night at the
          party. I shouldn't have yelled at
          you like that.
              (then)
          I was drunk.

                    NATALIE
          That's what I thought.

                    MARGOT
              (sighs)
          No. I wasn't. I was just... shitty.

                     NATALIE
          That's what I thought.
              (then)
          How are you gonna get in? There's a
          guest list.
                                                          108.


Margot reaches for Natalie's name tag, peels it off. She
flinches.

                    NATALIE (CONT'D)
          I'm still scared of you.


INT. HAMPTONS MANSION - LATER

Hedge fund money. Margot, now with Natalie's name tag
affixed, walks through the mixer looking for Percy. Most of
the middle-aged ATTENDEES are stealing glances at Margot.

She sees Laird and Allison, quickly turns, walks a different
direction. She spots Percy with other INCOMING FRESHMAN
listening to several RECENT ALUMNI.

                    RECENT ALUM #1
          And there's several Eating Clubs to
          choose from.

                    RECENT ALUM #2
          If you make it to junior year.

Lame laughter. Margot walks over joining with laughter.

                     MARGOT
          Well I can't wait to get eaten at
          Princeton.

Percy freezes, terrified. The other guys all check her out.

                    RECENT ALUM #1
          You're a prospective student?

                    MARGOT
          Yeah, Princeton's my safety school.

She grabs Percy by the arm and drags him off.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          I've been trying to get in touch
          with you.

He yanks his arm away, heads for the exit.


EXT. DRIVEWAY - CONTINUOUS

Percy walks to his car, Margot catches up.

                    MARGOT
          Please don't shut me out.
                                                       109.


                       PERCY
             I don't owe you anything!

                       MARGOT
             But I owe you something. I walked away,
             left you to your anger and your grief.
             I'm sorry, Percy. I'm so sorry.

Percy walks up to a Volvo SUV, gets in. She approaches, goes
for the handle. He locks it before she can open the door.

                       MARGOT (CONT'D)
             Open the door, Percy.

He starts the car, begins to pull away. She impulsively jumps
on the hood.

                       MARGOT (CONT'D)
             Stop!

He brakes.

                       MARGOT (CONT'D)
             Just get out and talk to me.

                       PERCY
             Get off the car. I don't want
             anything to do with you. I don't
             want to be in your shitty life.

                       MARGOT
             I know my life might seem kind of
             depressing to you, and you know, in
             a lot of ways it is. But there's
             some good stuff in it. Maybe I
             never told you about it, but
             there's some really good stuff in
             my life. And a lot of it has to do
             with you. The time we spent
             together still matters, even if it
             was a lie, because you felt
             something honest and pure for
             someone else.

                       PERCY
             Fine, we'll do it your way.

EXT. HAMPTONS MANSION - CATERING TRUCK AREA - MOMENTS LATER

Caterers on their smoke break look up as Percy, with Margot
on his hood, pass them.
                                                       110.


                       MARGOT
             The Percy I met at the beginning of
             the summer wouldn't have done that
             to Natalie watch it--

The other driver swerves, HONKS. Percy casually flips him
off. With Margot obscuring his view, he misses the turn to
the main road and blindly turns onto a sandy --

BEACH PATH

Margot clings to the hood. A war of wills.

                       MARGOT (CONT'D)
             Fuck. This is scary. I can't
             believe you did this.

                       PERCY
             You're blocking my line of sight!

                       MARGOT
             Well I'm not getting off until you
             promise you won't be like me!

Percy swerves into a few trash cans. Garbage flies up onto
Margot and the windshield. He puts on the windshield wipers.
They smack her in the face.

                       PERCY
             Had enough!?

                       MARGOT
             No! Promise me!

BEACH

He drives through some beach umbrellas. They smack Margot in
the face and body. She maintains her grip.

                       MARGOT (CONT'D)
             Promise you won't be like me!

Percy keeps driving. Margot looks back, sees several
PARTYGOERS drinking around a BONFIRE.

                        MARGOT (CONT'D)
                 (looking back)
             Um, Percy?

People scatter as the Volvo careens towards the bonfire.

WHOOSH
                                                       111.


The car runs through the bonfire. They emerge on the other
side, with Margot partially on fire.

                      MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Ahhhhhh!

                      PERCY
          Oh shit!

He pulls a hard left, heads right toward the ocean, then
SLAMS on the breaks. Margo goes flying into the ocean,
disappears under the water.

Percy rushes out of the car. He pulls her from the shallows.
They fall onto the sand, panting, exhausted.


EXT. BEACH - LATER

Margot and Percy sit on the sand.

                    PERCY
          I can't believe you jumped on my hood.

                    MARGOT
          I can't believe you drove with me
          on your hood.

                    PERCY
          I can't believe you didn't let go.

                    MARGOT
          I can't believe you got your license.

                    PERCY
          I can't believe you sold your house.

                      MARGOT
          ... Yeah.

Beat.

                    PERCY
          Where are you gonna go?

                    MARGOT
          California, to start. After that--

She shurgs, happy.

                    PERCY
          You got a car?
                                                          112.


                    MARGOT
          Actually I fixed up the Buick.

                    PERCY
              (laughs)
          Wow. That thing was busted to hell.

                    MARGOT
          It looked busted, but it was solid
          inside. It just needed some love.

Percy nods. They look out at the water for a beat.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          I should go.

She stands. He stands.

                    PERCY
          Are you coming back?

Margot shrugs.

                    PERCY (CONT'D)
          If you do, say hi. If you're horny
          or whatever. I'm kidding.

She laughs. Natalie approaches from the beach entrance.

                    MARGOT
          Be nice to her.

Percy nods.

                    MARGOT (CONT'D)
          Well, I guess this is it.

They stand for a beat... Then Margot embraces him with fierce
intimacy. They hold each other for a long beat.

                       PERCY
          Margot?

                    MARGOT
              (turns back)
          Yeah?

                       PERCY
          I promise.

Percy goes and sits down next to Natalie. He takes his hand
in hers as the sun goes down over the water.
                                                       113.


EXT. MONTAUK - LATER

The Buick passes a "Leaving Montauk" sign. Margot smiles,
finally free.

                                                FADE OUT.




No Hard Feelings
Writers :   Gene Stupnitsky  John Phillips
Genres :   Comedy  Romance
User Comments








