




                             ORIGIN



                           Written by

                          Ava DuVernay



               Inspired by Isabel Wilkerson's CASTE



INT/EXT. CONVENIENCE STORE - NIGHT

We glide above a city on the edge of sleep. Amidst the
treetops, a streetlamp invades the darkness. We drop through
the lace of branches to land at a simple convenience store.

A fresh-faced TEENAGE BOY strolls by. He's Black with close-
cropped hair and a bright smile. He flashes it while talking
on a cell to his GIRLFRIEND. They chat about nothing, really.

                    TEENAGE BOY
              (laughing)
          I know you wanna say it. Go `head.

                    GIRLFRIEND (O.S.)
              (giggling)
          I ain't gotta say it.

                    TEENAGE BOY
          But you wanna. I know. Go `head.

                    GIRLFRIEND
          I told you so.

                    TEENAGE BOY
          Always with the `I told you so.'
          You did. You right. This time.

He enters the store with a grin as she banters back.

CUT TO: Handing the CLERK a five-dollar bill, he gathers his
change, along with a watermelon iced tea and bag of Skittles.

Before he exits the store, he notices DRIZZLE outside. He
puts his hoodie up, heading into the night. We watch him
until he disappears into the darkness. A title appears:

                    ORIGIN


EXT. RUBY'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

The radio is tuned to NPR as Isabel balances a PINK BAKERY
BOX on her lap in the car. Next to her is BRETT HAMILTON,
white, handsome and attentive. He pulls into the driveway of
a well-loved home.

The curtains of the house are closed. A hint of worry on both
of their faces.

                    ISABEL
          Not up yet.
                                                         2.


                    BRETT
          Later than last week.

They exit the car. Brett heads to the curb to pull in the
trash bins. Isabel goes to the front door and uses her key.


INT. RUBY'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Isabel makes her way through the place by heart. In the
kitchen, she places the bakery box on the counter and starts
a pot of coffee. In the laundry room, she unloads the dryer.

Finally, she comes to her intended destination with a basket
of clothes under her arm. She listens at the door, then taps
lightly with her fingertips.

                    ISABEL
          Afternoon... Mama?

No answer. She opens the door, then respectfully peeks in. An
older woman, RUBY WILKERSON, is asleep. Maybe.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          Are you really sleeping or kinda?

                       RUBY
              (beat)
          Kinda.

Isabel nods knowingly, then sits on the bed with the laundry.
Ruby turns over. A beauty in her early 80s. Sleepy, but spry.

                    RUBY (CONT'D)
          Sweetie with you?

                    ISABEL
          He's bringing the trash round back.

                    RUBY
          Ah, yeah. Garbage day. Everything
          in its right place.
              (regarding the laundry)
          He saw these bras like this?

                    ISABEL
          No, ma'am. Of course not.

Ruby struggles to sit up and turn. Isabel helps her by
straightening her paralyzed legs, propping a pillow.

                    RUBY
          Where you off to this time?
                                                         3.


                    ISABEL
          Birmingham tomorrow.

                    RUBY
          England or Alabama?

                    ISABEL
          Alabama. A quick turnaround trip.

                    RUBY
          Can't keep track. Stay careful.

They fold the clothes. Inside the basket are ISABEL'S KEYS.
Ruby hands them to her without a second thought.

                    ISABEL
          Thanks. After this, I'm taking it
          easy on work trips for a while.

                    RUBY
          I think that's silly.

                    ISABEL
          I know you do.

                    RUBY
          What'll your book people say? I
          don't want them to let you go.

                    ISABEL
          They're not letting me go, Mama.

                    RUBY
          You don't know that. All you
          control is you. Those folks'll do
          what they want, how they want.

                    ISABEL
          I've been on tour for ten months.
          It's okay to take a break.

                    RUBY
          You don't have to though.

                    ISABEL
          I want to. I want to control my
          calendar, my time. I want to.

                    RUBY
          You know, your Father and I used to
          wonder how we got a child who was
          so bad at lies. Really, Isabel.
              (chuckling now)
                    (MORE)
                                                          4.

                    RUBY (CONT'D)
          Who doesn't know how to tell a tiny
          one? A small fib. My goodness.

Isabel smiles a little, caught. They fold quietly.


INT. RUBY'S HOUSE/KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Isabel carefully arranges the donuts and preps the coffee.

In the living room, Ruby attempts to slip on her shoes. Brett
rolls her WHEELCHAIR over, then kneels at her feet to help.

                    BRETT
          Why not let me do that?

                    RUBY
          `Cause I can still do it.

                    BRETT
              (charming her)
          I know you can do it. I do. But you
          don't have to when we're around.

A beat. She relents, nods and watches him tenderly place her
shoes on. She touches his head lovingly.

                     BRETT (CONT'D)
              (quiet, looking up to her)
          You ready?

                    RUBY
          Not really, Sweetie.

                    BRETT
          You're gonna be okay. Promise.

She encircles him with her arms. Half hug, half signal. With
that, he LIFTS her easily and places her in the wheelchair.

Isabel watches their exchange from the kitchen.


INT. ASSISTED SENIOR LIVING APARTMENTS - LATER THAT DAY

Isabel's hand rests on Brett's as he wheels Ruby through the
complex. A SALES EXECUTIVE gives the tour. Dining hall. Game
room. Gym. Ruby chats up the exec, who feigns interest.

                    RUBY
          My husband was a Tuskegee Airman.
          Fought for America in World War II.
                                                           5.


The door of the unit opens. It is less than half the size of
Ruby's home. Isabel, Brett and Ruby take it in. Underwhelmed.

Ruby commandeers her wheelchair, moving herself to the
window. Brett talks to the executive as Isabel watches her
mother for a beat. Then goes to her, bending by her side.

                    RUBY (CONT'D)
          At least there's good light.

Isabel nods in agreement. They both gaze at a gorgeous sky.

                    RUBY (CONT'D)
          Look at that cloud. I see a
          swimming pool with boys jumping in.

                    ISABEL
          Where do you see boys...?

                    RUBY
          There. Look. There's their arms.

                    ISABEL
          Oh, yeah. I see it!

                    RUBY
          They're a little league team. Just
          won the big game. Celebrating and
          having a ball. See the splashes?

                    ISABEL
          Little league team? What splashes!?

They crack up. Then, glide back from the clouds to reality.

Ruby holds Isabel's hand, lacing their fingers together.

Brett observes them both, hopeful that this will work out.


INT. ISABEL AND BRETT'S BATHROOM - SAME NIGHT

Isabel is in the bathtub. Brett brushes his teeth.

                    ISABEL
          Being in her own place is better.
          With her furniture, her own things.

                    BRETT
          It's her idea, Belle. Her decision.

                    ISABEL
          Because she's lonely. I need to be
          around more.
                                                            6.


                    BRETT
          We go by three, four times a week.
          Whenever she calls, you're there.
          My office is ten minutes away. I'm
          there. She's not alone. She wants
          something for herself.

                    ISABEL
          She doesn't want to be a burden. I
          know what to do. It'll be okay.

He finishes, kisses her on the forehead and heads out.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          Can you get that li...

He has already turned it off, leaving her in candlelight. It
feels like a nighty ritual. She picks up a book on a nearby
table, opens it and reads as she soaks.


EXT. AIRPORT - NEXT DAY

Ruby and Brett pull up to the curb. He gets out to gather her
overnight bag from the trunk. Isabel exits, puts on her coat.

                    BRETT
          Got your boarding pass?

She pats her pockets, unsure. He takes the pass out of his
pocket with a sly smile.

                    ISABEL
          I knew you had it.

They share a quick peck before she enters the terminal.

She turns to wave at him. He waves back, watching her through
the thick glass - until he can't see her anymore.


INT. AIRPORT SECURITY/LARGE AIRPORT - DAY

Isabel navigates through the TSA lines. But at the scanning
machines, the bag of the traveler in front of her is flagged
for inspection. He's an Indian man in his 30s with a wild bun
of the coolest, unruly hair. His skin is a hue that could
easily be mistaken for African-American. He is SURAJ YENGDE.

Slipping on latex gloves, A BROTHER WITH TSA taps a SMALL
BOX, then lifts it out of the bag.

                    TSA BROTHER
          Who's the owner of this bag?
                                                           7.


                       SURAJ
          I am, sir.

TSA BROTHER turns the box upside down, looks underneath.
Suraj watches calmly, letting the man do his job. Isabel
wants to get going, but is stuck observing the exchange.

                    TSA BROTHER
          I'll have to swipe it again.

As the TSA employee heads to a LARGE SCANNER to send the box
through again, Suraj turns back to Isabel. He's embarrassed.

                    SURAJ
          It's an award. I apologize.

                    ISABEL
          It's no problem.

                    TSA BROTHER
          Permission to open the box?

                    SURAJ
          Yes, sir. Of course.

The agent lifts a BRONZE STATUE of a bespectacled Indian man
with a serious expression and receding hairline out of the
box. He raises it to eye level, reviews it quizzically.

                    TSA BROTHER
          Who is this?

Curious, Isabel leans in to hear the answer.

                    SURAJ
          Um... he was the Dr. King of India.

TSA BROTHER looks to Isabel, the nearest Black person. They
eye each other, intrigued and impressed. He rewraps the bust,
then places it in the box as if it were King himself.

Isabel moves through security without fanfare. She observes
Suraj on a nearby bench, lacing his polished shoes. She grabs
her things and heads to the gate in a SEA OF TRAVELERS.


OMITTED
                                                           8.


EXT. GERMAN SHIPYARD FACTORY - 1936 - MORNING

A sea of flannel jackets and wool coats lurches forward under
gray skies. But though clouds obscure the sun, an eager
energy moves among the WHITE MEN who lean against the cold.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Shipyard workers at Blohm and Voss
          gather for a ceremony celebrating
          the company's new 295-foot vessel.

The hundred or so men settle in. Listening intently. And
then, all at once, they RAISE their right arms rigidly.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Adopted by the Nazis, a heil salute
          was mandatory for German citizens.
          But if you look closely, you'll
          find someone who defied this.

Amidst a wave of outstretched allegiance to the Third Reich,
clouds glide away to shine sunlight on the face of ONE MAN.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          His name is believed to be August
          Landmesser. He had joined the Nazi
          Party two years before this day.
          But in that time, August fell in
          love with a woman unlike any he'd
          ever met...


EXT. WORKING CLASS STREET - 1934 - DAY

Leaning on a light post, AUGUST's face is lined with worry.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Irma Eckler. A Jewish woman.

IRMA rounds the corner with a shopping bag. Her eyes sparkle
with intelligence and integrity. She spots him, beams. He
smiles back, adoringly. He goes to her. Both speak German.

                    IRMA
          An unexpected treat. You're early.

                    AUGUST
          I'm a surprise.

                    IRMA
          That you are. A handsome one.

He takes the bag from her. She touches his face, unaware of
the storm in his mind. He leans down and kisses her sweetly.
                                                         9.


                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Although a member of the dominant
          class, August saw in Irma what
          others like him chose not to see.
          Her humanity. Her beauty. Her love.


EXT. HAMBURG, GERMANY - MORNING

Back at the shipyard. CLOSE on August, defiant.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          So, on this day, he folded his arms
          rather than salute a regime that
          deemed that love illegal. On this
          day, he was brave.

August, unintimidated, stands on his conviction. The camera
PULLS BACK to find that the shipyard scene is -


INT. MASSIVE LECTURE HALL - 2012 - NIGHT

- an image projected on a LARGE SCREEN in a full auditorium.

In a perfectly tailored dress, Isabel is centerstage at the
podium. She speaks with conviction and control, exuding both
humility and authority all at once. From her cadence and
manner, it's clear that she's made this speech many times.
Yet, she refers to TYPED NOTE CARDS. Precise in her delivery.

                    ISABEL
          He couldn't have been the only one
          who felt that something tragic was
          happening. So, why was he the only
          one among those men who didn't go
          along that day? How would history
          have changed if more had resisted?

Attendees listen in rapt attention.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          Perhaps we can reflect on what it
          would mean to be him today. How can
          we too be brave? Right now. Today.
          I leave you with that. Thank you.

The speech she's clearly given many times is met with robust
applause as the screen switches from the photo to: "Pulitzer
Prize-winning author Isabel Wilkerson."
                                                        10.


INT. BACKSTAGE/GREEN ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Isabel makes her way through other SPEAKERS, SCHOLARS and
CONFERENCE PERSONNEL backstage.

She passes AMARI SELVAN, a dashing Black newspaper editor,
who she knows well. Surprised, they greet one another warmly.

                    ISABEL
          You're speaking? I didn't know.

                    AMARI
          One of our reporters is. I'm
          cheerleading. You were solid up
          there. Nice work.

                    ISABEL
          You know I write better than I
          lecture.

                    AMARI
          You write better than most people
          do anything.

Amari signals to WAITING COLLEAGUES that he'll join in a few.

                    AMARI (CONT'D)
          I thought about reaching out on
          something. I'll take seeing you as
          a sign.

Amari glances arounds quickly, then leans in.

                    AMARI (CONT'D)
          This Trayvon Martin case is...

Isabel nods, leans in too.

                    ISABEL
          I know.

                    AMARI
          Have you heard the tapes?

                    ISABEL
          No. Of what? Not the murder?

                    AMARI
          Yep. 911 calls. The killer called
          911 before he did it. Tapes from
          people who heard the kid screaming
          too and called the police.
                                                        11.


                    ISABEL
          Is that all public?

                    AMARI
          It's being slowly released. We have
          them. Interested in listening? To
          consider writing something for us.

                    ISABEL
          You've got a stable of writers.

                    AMARI
          They don't have Pulitzer Prizes.

                    ISABEL
          Some actually do.

                    AMARI
          Well, they aren't as brilliant as
          you on things like this.

                    ISABEL
          You know what I do now, Amari.

                    AMARI
          Yeah. And I know what you used to
          do. Some of the best reporting I
          ever edited.

                    ISABEL
          I write books now.

                    AMARI
          That one book took way too damn
          long. It was a masterpiece and what
          not. But, too long if you ask me.
          Writers write. So, write.

                    ISABEL
          I can't do assignments anymore. I
          want to be inside the story. All
          the way in. That takes time.

                    AMARI
          Maybe after you hear the tapes...

Amari eyes his colleagues who are eager for him to join them.

                    AMARI (CONT'D)
              (as he heads off)
          Sending them to you. No pressure.
                                                          12.


INT. CUSTOMER SERVICE CUBICLE - DAY

A quartet of cubicles. Inside of one is MARION WILKERSON, a
bright-eyed woman in the midst of a spirited conversation.

                    MARION
          I know keeping our elders at home
          is supposed to be the noble thing
          and all. But there's something to
          her being independent while she can
          be. Doing things her own way, in
          her own time, for as long as she
          can. That's important. It is.


INT. ISABEL'S HOUSE - DAY

Isabel talks to her cousin on SPEAKERPHONE as she calls to
her dogs, Chi-Chi and Sophie, then attaches their leashes.

                     ISABEL
          I agree with that.
              (beat)
          Where are my keys? Shoot.

                    MARION (V.O.)
          And, she's got a dining hall for
          socializing with other folks her
          age. Not sitting up in the house
          withering away so you can say: `I
          kept Momma at home.'

                    ISABEL
          She's the only Black person there.

INTERCUT ISABEL/MARION as Isabel searches for her keys.

                    MARION
          Aunt Ruby's been around white folks
          all her life. If anybody knows how
          to maneuver, it's your Mom. "My
          husband was a Tuskegee Airman." She
          knows what to do. Your Daddy was
          like that, too. Talk to anybody.
          Boy, they were a sight to see,
          weren't they? Best dressed in the
          family. Always dressed to the
          nines. You get that from them.

                    ISABEL
          It's how she taught me. And how her
          mother taught her.
                                                        13.


                    MARION
          You know, make sure to   put all
          those pictures of your   parents and
          the grands in archival   paper before
          you lock everything up   at her
          place. It preserves it   better.

                    ISABEL
          Good thought. I'll do that.

Brett enters the room, her lost keys now found and in hand.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
              (to Brett, relieved)
          Where were they?

                    BRETT
          Next to the lamp. Under a scarf.
          With the ringer off. Gotta keep it
          on the hook, Belle.

                    MARION
          Is that Mr. Brett?

                    BRETT
          Ms. Marion! You good? How's Teddy?

Now with her keys in hand and dogs ready, Isabel wraps it up.

                    ISABEL
          You two can have your little catch-
          up another time. We gotta get the
          babies out before dark.

                    MARION
          Brett. She's just jealous of our
          relationship. Teddy is too. It's
          okay though. We know.

                    BRETT
          What we have is special.

                    MARION
          That's right!


INT. ISABEL BEDROOM/OFFICE - SAME NIGHT

We pan across their bed to find Brett, sleeping restlessly.
Lost in thought, Isabel rises and walks through their home,
knowing the path in the dark. Into her office.
                                                          14.


She sits at her desk, only the screen illuminates her face.
She reluctantly clicks on an audio file entitled "Martin 911
Dispatch."


EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

Seventeen year old TRAYVON MARTIN grins as he continues on
his cell to his girlfriend. He strides down one residential
street, then another, minding his business.

He pops Skittles as a CAR PASSES HIM SLOWLY. He doesn't pay
any mind, crossing the street, closer to his destination.

We watch Trayvon, but hear THE CALL being placed to police.

                    MALE VOICE (V.O.)
          We've had some break-ins in my
          neighborhood, and there's a real
          suspicious guy just walking around.
          This guy looks like he's up to no
          good or he's on drugs or something.

Trayvon clocks the car passing again, this time slowing down.
We now hear his conversation with his girlfriend on the cell.

                    TRAYVON
          I think this guy's following me.
          Keeps looping around the block.

                    MALE VOICE (V.O.)
          He's just walking around the area,
          looking at all the houses.

Trayvon tries to glimpse the driver. What do they want?

                    MALE VOICE (V.O.)
          Now, he's just staring at me. He's
          got his hand on his waistband. He's
          a Black male.

Trayvon's girlfriend wastes no time.

                    GIRLFRIEND (O.S.)
          Just get home. Run home real quick.

The boy starts to jog towards his destination, uncomfortable.

                    MALE VOICE (V.O.)
          Shit, he's running.

The window rolls down to reveal a ROUND-FACED LATINO MAN.
                                                        15.


                    ROUND-FACED
          What're you doin' here?

                    TRAYVON
          What you following me for?

ROUND-FACED gets out of the car. We are CLOSE on Trayvon as
the man walks up to him, a SEMI-AUTOMATIC 9mm in his hand.
Fear flashes on the teen's face. Then, the man grabs his arm.

                    TRAYVON (CONT'D)
          Get off me! Get off!

Trayvon SWINGS to defend himself, grabs the man and wrestles
him to the ground. After a few moments, the man is on top.

CLOSE on Trayvon's face. The man is trying to POINT THE GUN
at him. Trayvon swings, then grabs the man's hands, his legs,
anything he can. He's fighting for his life.

And then, a GUNSHOT.

Trayvon's fear disappears. Skittles candy scattered nearby.


INT. ISABEL'S OFFICE/KITCHEN - NIGHT

Isabel stands at her desk, head bowed as if in prayer, as the
GUNSHOT rings out. The sound of Trayvon's fate echoes in the
room as if it's happening in the moment. Then, SILENCE.

She opens the desk drawer and takes out a file. She's been
keeping articles about the murder. She moves her fingertips
across them with reverence.

She opens her laptop, types: "His middle name was Benjamin."

She doesn't notice Brett at the door, watching for a moment,
pleased and admiring. He then disappears down the hall.

She rises to search her shelves, picking up one book in
particular like a treasure. THREE BLACK PEOPLE IN A 1930s
PICKUP TRUCK are on the cover. It's entitled "DEEP SOUTH."

As she leafs through the pages, her eyes drift to FRAMED
PHOTOS on the shelves, looking back at her at eye level.
Images of her family. Her father in his military uniform as a
TUSKEGEE AIRMAN. Marion and Isabel at various ages, always
together. Brett and Isabel, traveling the world.

And a PICTURE OF RUBY, in earlier years, standing in front of
her home, on her two feet, smiling and gorgeous. A moment of
everyday joy. Isabel picks up the picture and brings it
close, reveling in the details of her mother.
                                                        16.


After some reflection, Isabel places the picture back. Places
the book back. She turns off her computer, abandoning the
writing.

On the way to the bedroom, she notices the KITCHEN LIGHT on.
She enters to find Brett about to boil water.

                    BRETT
          Honey or sugar?

She goes to him and kisses him with thanks.

                    ISABEL
          I'm going to Mama's early. Pottery
          class.

She exits wearily. A confused beat. Then, he follows.


INT. NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY - NIGHT

A lavish black-tie affair. Luxury oozes from every corner.

Isabel and Brett enter hand in hand. She's a knock-out. He is
in a tux and the most handsome we've seen him.

Isabel's editor, KATE MEDINA, early 50s, genuine and
grounded, and her agent, BINKY URBAN, 60s, a spirited mix of
sass and class, approach them warmly. Hugs and air kisses.

                    BINKY
          Looking gorgeous, dear. And he's
          wearing that tux very well.

                    KATE
          He can hear you.

                    BRETT
          He agrees and thanks you.

                     KATE
              (to Isabel)
          Amari Selvan asked me twice if you
          were coming. He wants something for
          the paper.

                    ISABEL
          He's made that clear.

                    KATE
          You interested? We can time it to
          the audiobook. Get a lift.

Binky overhears and steps in.
                                                          17.


                    BINKY
          She doesn't want to do that. Do
          you, dear? I'll handle him.

                    ISABEL
          I'll talk to him. It's okay.

Smiles and good vibes all around as party patrons vector
around them. Isabel is a big writer. Kate is a big editor.
Binky is a big agent. And everyone in the room knows it.

While making their way through the party, Brett takes the
lead in their interactions. Isabel prefers it. As guests
approach, he blocks and tackles for her - picking up the
volley of a conversation, excusing them when it's run its
course. Always with his hand on the small of her back.

Brett is chatting with two guests when Amari approaches
Isabel from the opposite side.

                     AMARI
          You listen?
               (off her nod)
          And?

                    ISABEL
          A lot of ideas came to mind, but...
          longer form stuff. Questions that I
          don't have answers to.

Amari glances arounds quickly, catches Brett's eye and nods
politely while Brett is still otherwise engaged.

                    AMARI
          Ask them in a piece.

                    ISABEL
          I don't write questions. I write
          answers.

A slow smile from Amari. Brett has one eye on their exchange
while still listening to the other guest. Kate does too.

                    AMARI
          Questions like what?

                    ISABEL
          Like, why does a Latino guy
          deputize himself to stalk a Black
          kid so he can "protect" a mostly
          white community? What is that?
                                                        18.


                    AMARI
          The racist bias I want to explore.
          Excavate for readers.

                    ISABEL
          We call everything racism. What
          does it mean anymore? It's the
          default. When'd that start?

Amari laughs. At this, Brett breaks from his convo and makes
his way over. The men shake hands. Isabel observes them both.

            AMARI                              BRETT
Brett.                          Hi, Amari.

Amari immediately refocuses on the conversation with Isabel.

                    AMARI
          You're saying the man isn't racist?

                    ISABEL
          Not that he isn't racist. I'm
          wondering why everything is racist.

Brett looks from Isabel to Amari, proud of his wife.

                    AMARI
          This feels like a set-up.

                    ISABEL
              (beat, then she dives in)
          Unmarked graves. Millions of
          enslaved people stripped of their
          legacy, their dignity, even in
          death. White people wouldn't allow
          us to properly bury our departed.
          To even mark where they were laid
          to rest. Is that the same racism
          that murdered Trayvon?

                    AMARI
          Yes. Absolutely.

Isabel straightens her back, feeling the challenge. Brett is
enjoying this, having already been on the other side.

                    ISABEL
          Okay. Home ownership. Covenants
          written into land deeds barring
          Black people from having wills. No
          generational wealth allowed. You
          could not legally pass down what
          you earned to your kids if you were
          Black. For almost 500 years.
                                                19.


                    AMARI
          And still we rise.

                    ISABEL
          Amen.

                    AMARI
          Black family, black love, I tell
          you, it's our mighty underestimated
          weapon. They tried, but it can't be
          destroyed. By law or anything else.

                    ISABEL
          That's right.
              (they nod as Brett looks
               on)
          So, was not being allowed by law to
          will the fruits of our labor to our
          families the same racism that took
          Trayvon's life?

                    AMARI
          Systemic racism. Yes. Same.

                    ISABEL
          You're sure? If it's the same, why
          give it different categories to
          hold all the meaning we've placed
          on it? The subtle kind. The
          systemic kind. What does it mean?

Amari likes this. Brett listens intently.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          Murders of Black people by police.
          We call that racism. Corporations
          say Black people can't wear the
          natural hair growing from our heads
          in the workplace. We call that
          racism. Everything's the same?

                    AMARI
          I get it. Being followed at a
          department store and being lynched
          shouldn't be called the same thing.

                    ISABEL
          Racism, as our primary language to
          understand everything, seems
          insufficient. That's all.

                    AMARI
          Good. I need a piece delving into
          what the Martin case means.
                    (MORE)
                                                        20.

                     AMARI (CONT'D)
          Set the context with these
          questions. It's what you do best.
          Making the hard stuff digestible.
          And this is a hard one. What does
          it all mean? These questions are
          the piece.

Brett wants her to say yes. She hesitates.

                    AMARI (CONT'D)
          We'll make it splashy. Prime
          placement. Sunday. Maybe a cover.

                     ISABEL
          There's something to it, but... I'm
          on hiatus.

                    AMARI
          Isabel, c'mon.

                    ISABEL
          I am. Family responsibilities.

Brett covers his disappointment. Amari looks to him,
wondering what's going on. Then, gives up.

                    AMARI
          Listen, good for you for taking
          time. We'll talk again. Take care
          you two.

He nods to the couple and leaves. Brett wants to discuss and
starts to ask her about the decision to decline, but a FELLOW
AUTHOR approaches. They put on their smiles.


OMITTED


INT. RUBY'S SENIOR APARTMENT - NIGHT

The TV in the now fully furnished unit is tuned to JEOPARDY.
They all watch, shouting answers to questions. Then -

                    RUBY
          I want you to go on over to the
          house and check on my yard. That
          big ol' tree sheds this time of
          year. I don't want the neighbors
          getting the wrong idea.

                    ISABEL/BRETT
          Yes, ma'am.
                                                        21.


Jeopardy ends. Brett turns the channel to cable news. A story
about President Obama speaking about the Trayvon Martin case.
They watch, flooded with equal measures of sadness and rage.

                    RUBY
          That poor child's mother. Wish he'd
          answered the man right.

                    ISABEL
          What was that, Mama?

                    RUBY
          I wish he'd have answered the man
          when he asked him why he was there
          in the neighborhood. Maybe he would
          still be with us.

Brett looks to Isabel, wide-eyed. This is unexpected.

                    ISABEL
          You're saying it's the boy's fault?

                    RUBY
          No, of course not. Don't be silly.
          I'm saying there's a way to act
          that keeps you safe. He was too
          young to know it. Like Emmett. They
          think it's fair. Think they're the
          same. Got hurt before they learned.

                    ISABEL
          They are the same. And he shouldn't
          have to had to answer to anyone.

                    RUBY
          Should've and real life are two
          different things, darling. You know
          that. You can't be walking around
          at night on a white street and not
          expect trouble. That's intimidating
          to most whites.
              (to Brett)
          True or not?

Brett struggles with how to answer.

                    BRETT
          Unfortunately, yes. But you can't
          live your life based on what other
          people are intimidated by.

                    RUBY
          Sure you can, Sweetie.
                                                          22.


INT/EXT. RUBY'S SENIOR APARTMENT COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Isabel and Brett cross the parking lot. A quiet tension
builds. No words as they walk together - but apart.

They climb in the car and drive. She finally looks to him.

                    ISABEL
          What's wrong?

He drives on, wrestling with his feelings. She waits.

                     BRETT
          She asked me that... like I was a
          stranger. Not her son.
              (beat)
          She doesn't think of me like I
          think of her.

                    ISABEL
          That's not true, baby. She loves
          you.

                    BRETT
          I know she loves me. That's not
          what I'm saying.

                    ISABEL
          She's from a different time. She
          was just trying to sort through her
          feelings about...

                    BRETT
          You're on a hiatus?

                    ISABEL
          Huh?

                     BRETT
          You told Amari you're on a hiatus.
              (beat)
          You told me you were going to
          travel less.

Isabel is processing, trying to catch up to this turn in the
conversation.

                    BRETT (CONT'D)
          You never told me you weren't going
          to write at all.

                    ISABEL
          I said I want to focus on her.
                                                        23.


                    BRETT
          What's that got to do with writing?

                    ISABEL
          She shouldn't be at that place. She
          should be home. She moved because
          she was lonely. I should have spent
          more time. Daddy would want me to
          fix this.

                    BRETT
          Your father wanted you both happy.
          Sacrificing your work does exactly
          the opposite. She told you what she
          wants. This is not it.

The conversation is becoming intense. She tries to diffuse.

                     ISABEL
              (beat)
          She's my responsibility.

                     BRETT
          And you're mine.
              (beat)
          People are asking you to write for
          a reason. Your voice. The way you
          think. And you're zoning out.
          Hanging out at an old folks' home
          all day. Making cups?
              (beat)
          What are you doing?

                    ISABEL
          I'm taking care of someone I love.

                    BRETT
          This was her choice. Dammit,
          Isabel!

His outburst stuns her.

                    BRETT (CONT'D)
          Let the woman make her own
          decisions! You're hiding. And I
          don't get it.

                    ISABEL
          Hiding from what?! I'm not hiding.

He doesn't respond. Isabel is stunned.

Quiet.
                                                        24.


INT. ISABEL'S HOUSE - A SHORT TIME LATER

They enter their home. Separate in all of their movements.
Unusual.

                     BRETT
          I'm gonna have some of that pasta.
          Want some?

                    ISABEL
          Yes, please. Save me some.

He heads into the kitchen. She heads to the bedroom.


INT. ISABEL'S BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Isabel ties up her hair, exhausted. She runs hot water, adds
bath salts. She reclines in the tub, a table of books nearby.

A moment to think, process. She opens a small BIOGRAPHY on
BHIMRAO AMBEDKAR and begins to read to unwind.


INT. TRAIN STATION - 1913 - NIGHT

From inside of a train car, Black passengers with luggage in
hand trail behind white passengers who have disembarked and
are headed for the exit. Proud Black men known as Pullman
Porters cater to the whims of the white customers.

The voice of Suraj Yengde, the author, narrates the scenes.

                    SURAJ (V.O.)
          In the early 1900s, a young Indian
          graduate student found himself in
          New York City on a scholarship to
          Columbia University. Upon his
          arrival, he immediately recognized
          the similarities between how
          African-Americans were treated and
          the treatment of Indian people like
          him known as Dalits.


OMITTED


EXT. NEW YORK STREETS - 1913 - DAY

A 24-year old Indian man, BHIMRAO AMBEDKAR, walks down the
Harlem street transfixed by his surroundings. All curiosity
and wonder. Observing Black joy and community.
                                                         25.


                    SURAJ (V.O.)
          Bhimrao Ambedkar's presence in the
          United States was a highly unusual
          endeavor, for a Dalit is also known
          by some as a so-called Untouchable.
          Not the lowest caste in India. Not
          even below the lowest caste. They
          are outcast. Disposable. Despised.
          Considered untouchable. He saw
          kindred spirits among Black people
          in America. Both in the oppression
          they face and in their survival.


INT. AMBEDKAR HOUSE - 1918 - LONDON - DAY

In a cozy library room, Ambedkar reads with intensity.

                    SURAJ (V.O.)
          He then studied in London earning
          two PhDs and passing the bar before
          returning to India as a heralded
          scholar to help draft India's new
          constitution.


EXT. INDIA SEASIDE - 1925 - DAY

Dr. Ambedkar is cheered by Dalit workers upon arrival.

                    SURAJ (V.O.)
          Ambedkar wielded his pen for his
          people like a weapon against
          injustice. He said: "The
          emancipation of the mind and the
          soul is a necessary preliminary for
          the political expansion of the
          people. Education all must have.
          Means of defense all must have.
          These are paramount requirements
          for self-preservation."


INT. ISABEL'S BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Isabel drinks in every word. Her eyes jumping from line to
line, reacting with nods and murmurs of agreement.

                    SURAJ (V.O.)
          "Religion, social status and
          property are all sources of power
          and authority, which one man has,
          to control the liberty of another."
                                                         26.


She reads a line and sits up. She looks around for a pen,
something to mark the passage.

                    SURAJ (V.O.)
          "The strength of a society depends
          upon the presence of points of
          contact, possibilities of
          interaction between different
          groups which exist in it. Caste in
          India divides groups into fixed
          units that cannot be moved. The
          destruction of caste does not mean
          destruction of a physical barrier.
          It means a notional change."

She dog ears the page. Then takes a bit of wax from the
nearby candle and drips it gently on the word... "CASTE."


INT. ISABEL AND BRETT'S BATHROOM/BEDROOM - LATER

She closes the book, eager to share her excitement with
Brett. She emerges from the bathroom in her robe, applying
lotion to her hands, WHEN SHE SEES HIM.

From the other side of the bed, only his legs are in view.
Brett is on the floor. Face down. Still. She tries to compute
the image. Then, she calls out.

                     ISABEL
          Brett.

No answer. Her greatest fear.

She scrambles over the bed to reach him. At the edge, she
screams. But we hear NO SOUND. She falls toward him.


INT. FUNERAL - DAY

In the front row is Isabel, Ruby, Brett's parents and
children. Then, rows of friends and loved ones. Marion is
behind Isabel with her partner, TEDDY. Most are crying.

                    PASTOR
          By trade, Brett Hamilton was a
          mathematician, a financial analyst.
          By heart, he was a passionate
          champion of those he loved deeply.

With bloodshot eyes, Isabel is in her head - far away.
                                                           27.


INT. ISABEL AND BRETT'S BEDROOM - DREAM

Surrounded by darkness, Isabel lies in a LARGE PILE OF LEAVES
with her eyes closed. She opens them slowly to find herself
facing Brett. His eyes are closed. So, she closes hers again.


EXT. ISABEL'S FOYER - DAY

Mrs. Copeland is in the foyer in tears, baked goods in hand.
Marion receives the package.


INT. RUBY'S SENIOR APARTMENT - DAY

The TV flickers in Ruby's dark   apartment, making shapes
across Isabel's expressionless   face. She is on the couch next
to her mother, both covered in   a crocheted blanket as Donald
Trump demands to see President   Obama's birth certificate.

Ruby looks to Isabel, recognizing her daughter's pain.

                    RUBY
          Your father was supposed to be here
          too. They're supposed to be here.

Teary, she holds her daughter's hand. Isabel can't move.


INT. ISABEL'S OFFICE - DAY

INTERCUT CALL with Isabel's editor, Kate, in her office.

                    MARION
          Isabel Wilkerson's office.

                    KATE
          Hello. Hi. This is Kate. I'm
          Isabel's editor and I...

                    MARION
          I know your name. Hi, Kate. This is
          her cousin. Marion.

                    KATE
          Marion, hi. My condolences for your
          family's losses. I don't have the
          words. Unfathomable. Unthinkable.
                                                        28.


INT. ISABEL AND BRETT'S BEDROOM - DREAM

Eyes closed, Isabel is still in the leaves in her bedroom.
She opens her eyes to find Brett still there, eyes closed.
And now, her mother Ruby in front of him, with closed eyes.


INT. HOSPICE UNIT - DAY

Ruby is bedridden, on oxygen, under a crocheted blanket.
Isabel sits on the side of the bed, applying lotion to her
mother's hands. Lip balm to her lips. Ruby doesn't respond.

                    KATE (V.O.)
          Who can withstand this? The two
          closest people to you in a year?
          It's just... I don't know how she's
          managing. How is she?


INT. ISABEL'S BEDROOM - DAY

The blinds are drawn. It's dark. Marion looks through the
door to find Isabel in bed, wrapped in Ruby's crocheted
blanket. Huddled into herself in the fetal position, Isabel's
hand is over her face, shutting out the world.

Tears brim Marion's eyes. She carefully climbs onto the bed,
settling herself closely near her cousin. She wraps her arm
around Isabel, then draws her in. Isabel lets herself sink
into the tenderness, the sisterhood. Marion holds on tight
and close, trying with everything she has to protect her
loved one from the darkness.


INT. ISABEL AND BRETT'S BEDROOM - DREAM

In her mind, Isabel is still on the floor in the leaves. Eyes
closed. She opens them to find Ruby and Brett, both looking
back at her now. She gazes upon them, not wanting to blink.
Not wanting to lose them. Ruby reaches out, placing her hand
on her daughter's face. Isabel touches her hand. Brett looks
on with love. She closes her eyes.

                    BRETT
          Breathe, Belle.

When Isabel reopens her eyes, they are gone.

She rises from the leaves, on her feet, in the room, alone.
                                                          29.


INT/EXT. ISABEL'S HOUSE - DAY

Isabel sits on the couch, still.

She carefully places Brett's watch on her wrist and her
mother's wedding band on her finger.

Near the front door, Isabel puts on a sweater. She calls to
her dogs, puts on leashes and takes her KEYS off of a hook
with a sign that reads: "Keys." She ventures outside for what
feels like the first time in a while.

She crosses the lawn, blanketed in leaves, and takes the same
path that she and Brett would always take.

And like clockwork, she sees Mrs. Copeland, who approaches.

                    MRS. COPELAND
          Isabel. Hi. I haven't seen you out.
          How are you? I mean, you look well.
          Do you need anything?

The woman is nervous. Isabel senses it and puts her at ease.

                    ISABEL
          I'm okay. Thanks for asking.

                    MRS. COPELAND
          I brought a basket over when I
          heard. I hope you got it.

She didn't.

                    ISABEL
          I did. Thank you.

                    MRS. COPELAND
          He was a wonderful man. And you two
          made the loveliest couple. Both so
          attractive and accomplished. A
          beautiful, unlikely pair. May his
          memory be a blessing. I'm so sorry.

Mrs. Copeland continues to talk. But Isabel is stuck. She
can't hear the words. She's upset, but tries not to show it.


EXT. RUBY'S HOUSE - DAY

Isabel turns into the driveway under the canopy of trees. She
exits the car to find green landscape bins at the curb. It's
her job now. She goes to retrieve them.
                                                          30.


INT. RUBY'S HOUSE/PHARMACY - DAY

In her mother's living room, she opens drapery, allowing the
sun in. The reflection of a tree outside duplicates itself on
the living room wall as if it's growing there.

In the dining room, she removes a package from her shoulder
bag. A bundle of archival paper like Marion instructed.

JUMP CUTS as she takes frames from the walls and pictures
from the frames. Carefully wrapping them in the special paper
and placing the fragile images in an acid-resistant album.

Her cell rings. It's MARION. She's entering a PHARMACY.
INTERCUT.

                    MARION
          Hey. You made it in okay?

                    ISABEL
          Yep. I'm here. How're you?

Marion enters the megastore's pharmacy. She waits in line.

                    MARION
              (gently)
          Tell me how you are. How does it
          feel to be with all her things?

                    ISABEL
          I'm here, Marion. That's all I am.
              (softening)
          I walked the babies.

                    MARION
          Good! Good. How'd that feel?

                    ISABEL
          I had a meltdown after.

Noticing a SLIGHT PLASTER WELT in the kitchen, Isabel moves a
chair, climbs up, touching the bubble with a knife.

                    MARION
          You went the way you two'd walk.

                    ISABEL
          There's no other way.

Marion mouths her name to the pharmacist to grab her
medication and pays with her credit card.

                    MARION
          Right.
                                                        31.


                    ISABEL
          I ran into my neighbor. She said
          something so disrespectful.

                    MARION
          Girl, what?

                    ISABEL
          She called us an unlikely couple.

Isabel waits for a response. Marion waits for the bad part.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          Me and Brett.

                    MARION
              (um...)
          That hit a nerve for you?

                    ISABEL
          Hell yeah, it did.

                    MARION
          Why?

Isabel can't believe her ears.

                    ISABEL
          To say that we were improbable?
          "Unlikely" as in unbelievable.

                    MARION
          She was just being nice, I think.
          That's probably not what she meant.

                    ISABEL
          She meant that we didn't match. But
          somehow we ended up together. Like
          it's this unbelievable phenomenon.

                    MARION
          You two were from different places,
          backgrounds. It's kind of a miracle
          your paths crossed like they did,
          that you got together. Isn't it?

Isabel is in disbelief, holding back how hurt she is. Marion
is lost as to what the problem is. But stands down.

                    MARION (CONT'D)
          Listen, no one knows what goes on
          inside a relationship. And we
          shouldn't talk about things we
          don't know. My mistake.
                                                        32.


                    ISABEL
          I've got to go and get this done.

                    MARION
          You don't have to pack everything
          up now. I can come next weekend and
          help. Take it slow.

                    ISABEL
          I've got to get this house packed
          before I start back to work.

                    MARION
          You're starting back working?

                    ISABEL
          Of course. What am I supposed to
          do? How am I supposed to live?

                    MARION
          You've got money saved. Why not...

Isabel sighs, frustrated. Marion's swimming against the tide.

                    MARION (CONT'D)
          ... What are you working on? When
          do you have to start?

                    ISABEL
          I'm already behind on things I
          should be doing. I gotta go, okay?

                     MARION
          Okay.

And with that, the line disconnects. Off Marion, worried.


EXT. AIRPORT - DAY

The same spot where Brett dropped Isabel off and kissed her
goodbye. Now, she's alone, dropped by a TOWNCAR DRIVER. She
grabs her bag, tips, then looks up to the sky.

CLOSE on a clear, cloudless sky. No shapes. No Little
Leaguers in pools. Clearly thinking of her mother, she enters
the terminal. We watch her - until we can't anymore.


INT. NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY - NIGHT

Another year. Another gala. But, this night is different.

Isabel enters alone, alongside tuxedoed and gowned guests.
                                                        33.


She is a known entity. And a popular one. Her nature as an
introvert is challenged as she's stopped every few steps.
Smiles here. Hugs there. She's uncomfortable without Brett to
buffer the attention. But, covers it well enough.

Her editor, Kate, and her agent, Binky, approach immediately.
They all hug. It's heartfelt. These women know her well. And
they know what she's been through.

                      KATE
          You came.

                      ISABEL
          I'm here.

These two have a special bond.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
              (teasing)
          I thought I'd get a couple rounds
          in before having to talk business.

As the women talk, they glide around the room, searching for
their table assignments, stopping to smile and wave.

                    BINKY
          Darling, we don't have to talk
          about anything you don't want to.
          The market is hungry for you now
          and it'll be hungry tomorrow. We
          published "Warmth" how many years
          ago, and your touring is still
          fully booked whenever you're ready.
          You take your time. They've waited
          a year. They can wait longer. We
          don't have to talk business at all.

Isabel looks to Kate, who is quiet. An awkward beat.

                    ISABEL
              (to Kate)
          I take it you don't agree.

                    KATE
          I agree that you should move at
          your own pace. I also know what
          writing does for you. And maybe,
          you need that feeling right now.

                    BINKY
          She has to want to, Kate.

                    KATE
          You're right.
                                                           34.


                    ISABEL
          Well, I have an idea.

                    BINKY
          Yes. I knew that's why you came.

                    KATE
          Tell us, Isabel.

CLOSE on Isabel. A deep breath and then she goes for it.

                    ISABEL
          I never really explored the Trayvon
          Martin case. I know it's been a
          while, but I think there's still a
          lot unpacked there. I've been
          thinking about my Mom and how she
          insisted that we be polite and
          buttoned up around white people.
          And there's Nazi symbolism all over
          right now. You saw what happened to
          the young woman in Charlottesville.

                    BINKY
          Yes, the neo-Nazi...

                    ISABEL
          Yes, drove into a crowd at a
          protest for Black lives. Killed a
          white woman. Heather Heyer. All
          those idiots with tiki torches.
          They're evoking imagery from the
          KKK and Nazi Germany to stoke fear.
          This terrific Indian scholar I
          happened to see randomly. I didn't
          even meet him. I saw him at an
          airport and I meant to read about
          his work, I just haven't, I...
          He's a Dalit professor. He won a...

The women listen for her to say something that clicks.

                    BINKY
          Sorry, what's a Dalit professor?

                    ISABEL
          He's Dalit and he's a professor.
          Dalits used to be Untouchables in
          India. Beneath the lowest caste.

                    BINKY
          Ah, yes, I see.
                                                        35.


                    ISABEL
          He won an award. I saw the bust of
          Ambedkar. A huge figure among
          Dalits. Have you heard of him?

Both women shake their heads no, trying hard to follow Isabel
while partygoers clink glasses and mingle.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          Me neither. Why?

As she talks, Kate and Binky share a quick glance of concern.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          There's connective tissue I could
          find to build a thesis about...
          about how this is all linked.

Isabel notices their glance to each other. They are alarmed.
She stops, regretting talking, being there. Kate notices.

                    KATE
          This is the writer's journey.
          Sorting it out. There's a lot going
          on in that big brain of yours. I
          love that. But I'll be honest, I
          don't understand how the woman
          killed by the Neo Nazi connects to
          the Dalit professor connects to
          Trayvon Martin connects to your
          Mom. I don't see it right now. But
          if you can make people see it,
          that's an incredible book.

                    BINKY
          I agree, dear. Wholeheartedly.

Isabel nods, embarrassed, wanting to be anywhere but there.

                    KATE
          Like I said, writing will do you
          good. Maybe a research trip? Get
          out of the country. Read books,
          relax, find the way to say what you
          want to say.

                    BINKY
          Keyword there is relax. Let me set
          up a trip for you to somewhere
          beautiful and tropical. Massages,
          blue water. The agency'll arrange
          it all for you.

The women look at her with loving concern.
                                                          36.


                      ISABEL
            I feel like...

She stops short. ECU on Isabel, lost in her thoughts.

                      ISABEL (CONT'D)
            Okay, I'll get back to you.

They nod in sympathy and support. They don't understand her.
She feels like she's reeling, but smiles through it.


INT. NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY - A SHORT TIME LATER

Isabel has wandered away from the party. To get her bearings.
To breathe. She walks up the stacks, looking for something.

She finds   it and relaxes when she tenderly pulls a book from
the grand   shelf. It is "DEEP SOUTH." We've seen the book
before in   her office. The cover picture features three Black
people in   the 1930s, sitting in the bed of a pickup truck.

She leafs through the pages with care, taking in the words
like a balm. We pan away from her across the spine of
GLORIOUS BOOKS to find ANOTHER READER at the shelves. We are
now in...


INT. BERLIN UNIVERSITY LIBRARY - 1933 - DAY

A movie-star handsome man with a thin mustache, ALLISON
DAVIS, peers at book shelves alongside his wife, ELIZABETH
DAVIS, a refined beauty of a woman. They are a stunning
couple. Both extremely light-skinned African-Americans who
could pass for white on first glance.

                      ALLISON
            I don't see it, Lizzy. Do you?

Elizabeth bends to search a bottom row, shaking her head no.

                      ELIZABETH
            Maybe it's checked out.

                      ALLISON
            There are no books here at all by
            him. Odd, don't you think?

                      ELIZABETH
            At the premiere library in the
            city. The country.

                      ALLISON
            Beautiful library though.
                                                        37.


                    ELIZABETH
          I could get lost in these books
          forever. All these ideas.

                    ALLISON
          Let's build a little tent over
          there and read and grow all day.

                    ELIZABETH
          You've never said anything more
          romantic to me.

They smile flirtatiously. Then continue their search.


INT. BERLIN UNIVERSITY LIBRARIAN'S DESK - CONTINUOUS

The couple waits in line with a few books in hand. The
LIBRARIAN, a white man, waves them over, nods in begrudging
acknowledgment as he checks them out. They all speak German.

                       LIBRARIAN
          Your card.

                    ALLISON
          Good afternoon. Of course.

Allison hands his library card with his passport. Elizabeth
has hers in hand too.

                    ALLISON (CONT'D)
          Can you tell us when Erich
          Remarque's `All Quiet on the
          Western Front' is due back?

The librarian looks at them with suspicion, then reviews the
passport and card as if it's a matter of national security.

                    LIBRARIAN
          From the United States.

                    ALLISON
          That's correct.

                    LIBRARIAN
          What are you doing this far from
          home?

                    ALLISON
          My wife and I are studying here.

                    LIBRARIAN
          What are you studying?
                                                          38.


                       ELIZABETH
             We work with Dr. Diedrich
             Westermann.

This satisfies him enough to complete the transaction. He
doesn't place the books in the couple's hands. But, drops
them on the counter and waves the next person over.

As they exit, they pass a bespectacled white man, ERICH
KASTNER, a few spots back in line. He follows them unnoticed.


EXT. BERLIN UNIVERSITY - MOMENTS LATER

Kaster catches the couple as they cross the pristine campus.
Nazi Party flags wave on the buildings. English is spoken.

                       KASTNER
             Excuse me. I heard you inquire
             about Remarque, but couldn't hear
             the librarian's answer. Would you
             mind sharing what he told you?

                       ELIZABETH
             He actually didn't answer. He began
             asking why we were in Germany.

Alarm flashes across Kastner's face. The Davises aren't sure
what to make of it.

                       KASTNER
             I'm Kastner. I'm from here. I'm not
             asking in the same way that he did.
             I'm asking for a different reason.
             How long have you been in Berlin?

                       ALLISON
             About five weeks. We're
             anthropologists studying...

Kastner seems distressed.

                       KASTNER
             You have no idea what's happening.

             ELIZABETH                       ALLISON
Pardon me.                        I'm sorry, I didn't catch
                                  that.

A pause, then he looks them directly in the eye with an
urgency that startles them.
                                                           39.


                    KASTNER
          You have no idea what's happening
          here. Everything is being torn
          apart.


EXT. THE BEBELPLATZ - NIGHT

A light DRIZZLE falls in the central city square as about
forty thousand people gather in a heightened frenzy.

STUDENTS, PROFESSORS in their academic robes and the HITLER
YOUTH paramilitary organizations, carrying torches and Nazi
banners, walk beside OPEN-BED TRUCKS through Brandenburg
Gate. The trucks are filled with BOOKS and have demeaning
caricatures of Jewish people emblazoned on the sides.

Through a large crowd of onlookers, we see a FUNERAL PYRE of
logs piled twelve feet wide and five feet high. The unified
phalanx of marchers cross the square to throw their lit
torches onto the logs, setting the pyre AFLAME.

CLOSE on a marcher's torch being tossed. Flying from the hand
of a GERMAN STUDENT, it reveals Allison, Elizabeth and
Kastner. They are wide-eyed. But, cover their horror as best
they can so as not to draw attention to themselves.

A NAZI BAND plays. The crowd sings along. Students gleefully
carry ARMFULS OF BOOKS to the FLAMES with cheers, destroying
them by fire as the organizers recite "fire oaths" in German.

                    NAZI STUDENT ORGANIZER
          Sigmund Freud! For falsifying our
          history and degrading our heroes!

The crowd goes wild with cheers and screams of approval.

                    NAZI STUDENT ORGANIZER (CONT'D)
          Erich Remarque! For degrading the
          German language's patriotic ideals!

Allison shakes his head in disbelief as the crowd roars.

                    NAZI STUDENT ORGANIZER (CONT'D)
          Georg Bernhard! His Jewish kind of
          journalism is alien to this nation!

Many in the crowd respond with Nazi salutes.

                    NAZI STUDENT ORGANIZER (CONT'D)
          Against decadence and moral decency
          and custom, I deliver to the flames
          the works of Heinrich Mann, Ernst
          Glaeser, and Erich K�stner!"
                                                        40.


Elizabeth subtly touches Kastner's arm. The crowd roars like
a vicious animal.

                    KASTNER
          I must go. I must go now.

                    ALLISON
          We'll help you.

                    KASTNER
          No. I'll walk one way. Wait a few
          minutes, then go to your lodging.
          And I urge you. Leave here.

                    ELIZABETH
          We'll be right behind you.

                    KASTNER
          No, my friends. Leave here. Leave
          Germany. Go to your home as soon as
          you can. You'll be safer there.

He walks away at a clip, his hands buried in his pockets and
hat brim over his eyes.

Just then, the main attraction begins. The applause and
cheers reach a fever pitch as uniformed, high-ranking NAZI
OFFICIALS take the stage. One is introduced in the rain.

                    NAZI STUDENT ORGANIZER
          Salute Joseph Goebbels!

The crowd heils like fans at a rock concert. Goebbels stands
before a podium draped with the Nazi flag. In German.

                    GOEBBELS
          Comrades! The period of exaggerated
          Jewish intellectualism is now at an
          end! The German soul can express
          itself again! These flames do not
          only illuminate the final end of
          the old era, they also light up the
          new! In this late hour, entrust to
          the flames the intellectual garbage
          of the past!

Allison and Elizabeth shudder. He takes her hand and they
walk in the opposite direction of Kastner. Heads down.

                    GOEBBELS (CONT'D)
          No to decadence and moral
          corruption! Yes, to decency and
          morality in family and state!
                                                           41.


The crowd is in a complete frenzy. The couple walks at a
brisk pace out of the square.

They pass someone very closely.

It is Isabel in the PRESENT DAY, entering the same square.


EXT. THE BEBELPLATZ - PRESENT/NIGHT

Isabel walks across the now EMPTY PLAZA towards a GLOWING
WHITE SQUARE cut into the cobblestones. The carved opening
emits a surreal light, slicing the shadows of the grand
buildings on the perimeter.

Behind Isabel is NIGELLA, a white British woman with ivory
hair.

As they approach the light, Nigella explains the solemn
sight.

                    NIGELLA
          `Where you burn books, you end up
          burning men.' A quote by Heinrich
          Heine. He was a poet. The poets
          always seem to know best, don't
          they?

Isabel nods in agreement, then gazes down into the square to
find a SUBTERRANEAN WHITE ROOM protected by thick glass.
Inside are ROWS AND ROWS OF EMPTY BOOK SHELVES. An eerie
reminder of what was lost on the night that the Nazis burned
books, burned freedom.

                    NIGELLA (CONT'D)
          The bookshelves stand empty to bear
          witness. Over 20,000 books filled
          with ideas and imagination and
          history were lost that night.

Isabel takes in this space so full of meaning and memory.

                    NIGELLA (CONT'D)
          In Germany, they have a memorial to
          everyone victimized by the Nazis. A
          memorial to homosexuals who
          perished. Memorials for women, for
          children. Everyone is remembered.


EXT. HOLOCAUST MUSEUM AND MEMORIAL - DAY

Isabel stands amidst a concrete maze the size of three
football fields with over 2,700 coffin-shaped rectangles.
                                                          42.


                    NIGELLA (V.O.)
          No entry gate. No sign. It's open
          both day and night, in all weather.
          Just standing. To bear witness.

Isabel enters, weaving among the stones with reverence.


INT. HOLOCAUST MUSEUM AND MEMORIAL - DAY

Inside the museum, she reads the last words of Holocaust
victims. She stops in her tracks as she reads one message in
particular: "What is my life worth even if I remain alive.
Whom to return to in my hometown of Warsaw? For what and for
whom do I carry on this whole pursuit of life? Enduring.
Holding out. For what?" These words hit her heart. They are
her questions to herself.

Across the room, she watches a MOTHER and ADULT DAUGHTER,
arms linked as they mournfully observe the exhibit. She's
lost in their gestures of love as they move through the space
together. Then, she exits the room, alone.


INT. KOSTLIN TOWNHOME - NIGHT

Voices spill from an architectural gem of a modern townhome.
Five stories. Walls drenched with CONTEMPORARY ART in an airy
interior illuminated by massive bespoke windows.

This is the home of ULRICH, white, German, mid-60s, with the
polish of someone whose been wealthy for a while.

He shares it with his husband NATHAN, Vietnamese-American,
40s, with bright eyes. They host Isabel, Nigella and a
European journalist friend SABINE, 50-ish, red hair.

                    SABINE
          It's the American way!

                    NATHAN
          We know! We know! It's ridiculous!

                    SABINE
          Well, that's what I'm looking at
          with the article. You have 900
          shootings a week it seems and keep
          giving people guns.

                    ULRICH
          I don't understand it.
                                                      43.


                     NATHAN
          Dear, we don't even understand
          ourselves.

Nathan holds Ulrich's hand, who kisses it tenderly.

                    ISABEL
          It's true. There's so much that
          makes no sense. I read that here
          displaying the swastika is a crime.
          Three years in prison?

                    NIGELLA
          That's true. It's not tolerated.

                    ISABEL
          In America, the Confederate flag,
          which is like your Nazi flag, the
          flag of murderers and traitors,
          it's incorporated into the official
          state flag of one of our states.
          Mississippi. There's a hospital in
          Hattiesburg today named after a KKK
          Grand Wizard. Statues of men who
          went to war for the right to own
          human beings? They're sprinkled all
          over the country. Right now.

                    SABINE
          Madness. It's not perfect, but
          Germany has no monuments that
          celebrate Nazis.

                    ULRICH
          All the sites we've either made a
          memorial or paved over.

                    NIGELLA
          Everything Hitler is gone. They
          paved right over it all. And built
          new things.

                    SABINE
          You can literally walk right over
          Nazi places and not know it was
          ever there.

                    NATHAN
          And the bunker.

                    ULRICH
          Yes, the bunker. Long gone.
                                                        44.


                    NIGELLA
          Isabel, we passed it on the way.

                    ISABEL
          We did?

                    NIGELLA
          You'd never know. It looks like
          nothing. It was 30 feet underground
          and protected by reinforced
          concrete. Now it has a Volkswagen
          or something parked on top of it at
          any given time of day.

                    ISABEL
          A very different approach than in
          the States.

                    SABINE
          Well, I think there are many
          differences between here and there.
          I mean, we are talking about the
          systematic murder of 11 million
          Jews, which is the new official
          number. 11 million. Astonishing.
          It's very different than your
          monuments of soldiers and what not.

Isabel is taken aback. Nathan is too.

                    NATHAN
          What are you saying is different?

                    SABINE
          All of it. This was deliberate
          extermination. Over many years.

                    NATHAN
          Wasn't slavery for, like, hundreds
          of years? Right, Isabel?

Isabel is upset, but swallows it. She speaks calmly. Like a
teacher. Even smiling slightly.

                     ISABEL
          Slavery lasted for 246 years. That
          is thirteen generations of people.
              (beat)
          And another 100 years of Jim Crow
          segregation, violence and murder.

                    SABINE
          It's, of course, horrific. I'm not
          downplaying any of it.
                                                45.


                    ISABEL
          There were so many hundreds of
          millions of Black lives lost
          between the Middle Passage and the
          legal end of segregation that it's
          beyond the realm of an official
          number. There is no number.

                    NATHAN
          I didn't know that.

                      NIGELLA
          Stunning.

                    SABINE
          It is. And I understand that you
          want to find a way to make American
          racism make sense. It's noble. But
          your thesis to link it with caste
          in Germany and India is flawed.

                    ULRICH
          Maybe it's not exactly the same,
          but her thesis of structural
          similarity certainly gives context
          for a framework.

                    SABINE
          A framework is not enough for a
          book, my friends. She is trying to
          connect Germany and India with the
          United States. And it doesn't fit.
          It's as if you're trying to fit a
          square into a circle, as they say.

Everyone, but Sabine, is uncomfortable.

                    NIGELLA
          I've read books with a lot less to
          go on, Sabine. Honestly, darling...

                    SABINE
          Not good ones. And don't we want
          Isabel's to be a good one?

                    NATHAN
          She's a Pulitzer Prize winner. I
          think her book'll be just fine.

                    SABINE
          Of course it will be.
              (to Isabel)
                    (MORE)
                                                        46.

                     SABINE (CONT'D)
          But you must just note for yourself
          that American slavery and the caste
          system in India are rooted in
          subjugation. Dominating Dalits and
          Blacks for the purposes of
          capitalism. Using bodies and labor
          for profit. For Jews in the
          Holocaust, the goal was not
          subjugation.
              (beat)
          It was extermination. Kill them
          all. Wipe them off the face of the
          earth. There is no need for them.
              (beat)
          It is different.

The table is quiet. Isabel takes it all in.

                    SABINE (CONT'D)
          I hope you aren't offended by
          honest critique.

                    ISABEL
          I appreciate your candor.


EXT. GERMAN CANALS/MARION'S RECLINER - NEXT DAY

Isabel walks the canals in mid-conversation with Marion by
phone, who reclines in a lounger. INTERCUT.

                    ISABEL
          She's not wrong. Not right either.

                    MARION
          I say leave the Jewish folks alone.
          They're fine. They don't need you.
          Black folk need you to do what you
          do. That's why the first book hit.
          It was about us. Write about us.

                    ISABEL
          I am writing about us. The parts
          they hid. What was taken, cheated.
          The manipulation. I couldn't
          explain to her what's in my head
          yet. I have to figure out...

                    MARION
          See? You're better than me. I
          would've had words. She was rude.
                                                        47.


                    ISABEL
          She was being what she's been
          taught to be. And I said words. I
          said a lot of words.

                    MARION
          Yeah, but none of them were: `I'm
          the right one on the wrong day.'

                    ISABEL
          I'm my mother's daughter. You'll
          never hear that from me.

                    MARION
          That's why you could never bag
          back. Not since we were kids.
          Always'll think of a comeback the
          next day. `I shoulda said...'

                    ISABEL
          If Brett were there last night...

                    MARION
          Oh Lord. Poor lady.

                    ISABEL
          We'd still be there confronting.

They laugh. Then, settle into a comfortable quiet.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          We were having conversations we
          didn't get to finish.

                    MARION
          I know.

WIDE on Marion, full of sympathy. We see now that the lounger
she sits in is hooked to a DIALYSIS MACHINE. A TECH tends to
the process. The cousins are quiet together, worlds away.


INT. BERLIN MUSEUM - LATER

An austere open-air space punctuated with smooth surfaces.

Weaving her way through tourists and students, Isabel
overhears a teacher explain that the structure they are
standing in is built on top of the former SS headquarters.

She continues into a VIEWING ROOM, where vintage black and
white IMAGES are projected on the walls. Transfixed and
repulsed, she focuses on every detail of the photographs.
                                                          48.


She   TAKES PICTURES of the caption card next to the images.
The   words are in German, but she zeroes in on "United States"
and   "anti-miscegenation." She takes out her translation book
and   tries to decipher the passage.

As she continues, her eyes grow large. This can't be right.

She sits on a concrete bench and writes detailed notes on the
images of 17 high-ranking Nazi officials. The date the images
were taken is June 5, 1934.

She stares at one German official in particular, in a kind of
disbelief. He seems to stare right back at her.


INT. MEETING ROOM - JUNE 5, 1934 - DAY

The man staring right into the camera is ACHIM GERCKE,
dressed in an official top coat with Nazi insignia that
states his rank.

Gercke sits at a long table with the 16 OTHER MEN. All white
Germans. All feel like slightly different versions of one
person. In this room, they will decide the fate of millions
of Jews and others. At points in this debate, various men are
denoted here by last name while sharing their opinions. All
suited and serious. A STENOGRAPHER captures each word.


                      GRAU
            The American model is useful. The
            notion that race mixing in marriage
            is illegal is ingrained in their
            public opinion. Quite stunning.

                      L�SENER
            But that takes time. Centuries.

                      GERCKE
            American segregation might provide
            a possible approach. More recent.

                      GRAU
            Segregation isn't suitable to our
            circumstance. German Jews are too
            arrogant and too wealthy. Our
            problem is different.


EXT. ULRICH AND NATHAN'S TOWNHOME COURTYARD - PRESENT DAY

Nigel and Isabel lean over a LARGE BOOK as he translates the
German text. She is eager and excited.
                                                        49.


                    NIGELLA
              (reading in English)
          `Our problem is different. Their
          problem is Negroes with nothing to
          build upon. A problem that plays no
          role for us in Germany. Our problem
          is the Jews, who must be kept
          enduringly apart...'
              (shocked)
          What is this?

                    ISABEL
          It's a transcript of a meeting I
          saw a picture of. A meeting where
          Nazi lawyers study and debate
          American laws and customs to figure
          out how to pull off the Holocaust.


INT. MEETING ROOM - JUNE 5, 1934 - CONTINUOUS

Various men debate. Now in translated English.

                    GRAU
          Our problem is the Jews, who must
          be kept enduringly apart since
          there is no doubt that they
          represent a foreign body in the
          Volk. Segregation will never
          achieve the goal, as long as the
          Jews have economic power in our
          German Fatherland as they do now.

                    GERCKE
          As long as they have the most
          beautiful automobiles, the most
          beautiful motorboats. As long as
          they play a prominent role in
          pleasure spots and resorts, and
          everywhere that costs money.

                      GRAU
          This can   only be achieved through
          measures   that forbid sexual mixing
          of a Jew   with a German and imposes
          criminal   punishment.


INT. GERMAN NIGHTCLUB - 1934 - NIGHT

August and Irma Landmesser are in love. Dressed up. Dancing.
Twirling. Dipping. Laughing. Kissing. All to the popular
music of the day being played by a LIVE BAND.
                                                        50.


                    IRMA
          Our rehearsing has paid off.

                    AUGUST
          Has it really? I can't tell.

                    IRMA
          You've become quite decent.

                    AUGUST
          It's only taken six months to get
          that twirl down.

                    IRMA
          Give or take. Mostly give.

                    AUGUST
          Has it been more than six?

                    IRMA
          A little over a year. But,
          completely worthwhile!

                    AUGUST
          Let's go again.

                    IRMA
          Yes! Let me powder my nose first.

As she heads across the crowded club to the POWDER ROOM,
August notices GESTAPO OFFICERS on the sidelines of the dance
floor. Scanning. Searching. Discreetly pointing.

Most dancers are completely unaware of what's going on. The
harassment and questioning that's about to happen. These are
the early days.

But August recognizes it. And he's caught off-guard. His eyes
dart to find Irma, just as she disappears into the bathroom.


INT. NIGHTCLUB BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Irma stands in front of the mirror next to SEVERAL OTHER
WOMEN, pinning her hair back in place with a smile as the
ladies banter on. Their words spilling on top of each other.

                    LADIES
          Did you see them?/I heard they'll
          just ask for names/And addresses/
          They won't/They're looking for
          artists/ And people who listen to
          jazz/I don't believe it/It's all
          blown out of proportion/No.
                    (MORE)
                                                        51.

                    LADIES (CONT'D)
          This happened at the Wonder Room
          last month/Rumors.

With concern, Irma hurries to finish, then heads out.


INT. GERMAN NIGHTCLUB - CONTINUOUS

August waits directly outside the restroom door. Irma stops
short when she sees him. They exchange a look.

To Irma, August appears enraged. To August, Irma appears
afraid. Expressions that they don't recognize in each other.

He holds out his hand. She takes it.

                    AUGUST
          Laugh, dear. Laugh right now.

She does. He does too. Then, he hugs her tightly and spins
her in the opposite direction of the officers, away from the
dance floor. The MUSIC STOPS. Officers approach.

August and Irma are already halfway out of the door. CLOSE on
their coats on the chairs they've quickly left behind.


INT. MEETING ROOM - JUNE 5, 1934 - DAY

The heated deliberation continues in the wood-paneled room.

                    L�SENER
          We must answer the question here
          today as to whether laws that the
          Reich will institute should declare
          only the separation of races. Or if
          it should declare the superiority
          of one and inferiority of others.

                    KOHLRAUSCH
          The American material gives us a
          path to an answer. America has
          succeeded here. Their legislation
          does not base itself on the idea of
          mere racial difference, but, to the
          extent this legislation is aimed at
          Negroes, it bases itself absolutely
          on the idea of inferiority.

                    KLEE
          Germans are already convinced the
          Jews are an inferior race. German
          law should reflect that.
                                                          52.


                    FREISLER
          Precisely, I am of the opinion that
          we can proceed with the same
          primitivity as the American states.
          Such a procedure would be crude,
          legally, but it would suffice.


EXT. ULRICH AND NATHAN'S TOWNHOME COURTYARD - DAY

Nigella and Isabel huddle over the document. He stops his
translation, comes up for air taking a much needed swig from
his wine glass.

                    ISABEL
              (energized)
          The Nazi blueprint for the
          extermination of millions of human
          beings was patterned directly on
          America's enslavement and
          segregation of Black people.

                    NIGELLA
          America taught the Nazis. That's
          what this is saying. It is... it is
          jaw-dropping.

                    ISABEL
          Yes. So, if the Holocaust is one of
          the prime examples of caste... and
          if America was the blueprint,
          then...

                    NIGELLA
          Then, America does fit.

He marvels at the new information. Isabel is on a roll.

                    ISABEL
          Caste functions in America, India
          and Germany in the same way. The
          outcomes might be different, like
          Sabine said. But they function the
          same. The Third Reich's caste
          system and America's terrorism
          toward Black people? One was built
          on the back of the other.

                    NIGELLA
          Yes.

                    ISABEL
          And the Hindu caste system in
          India, I believe is connected too.
                    (MORE)
                                                        53.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          I have more work to do there,
          but... there's something to this,
          right? The interconnectedness. That
          is my point. That's what I'm trying
          to prove.

                    NIGELLA
          You'll find it. You'll put it in
          your book. But promise me one
          thing?

                    ISABEL
          What's that?

                    NIGELLA
          Promise me you'll send your first
          copy to Sabine. That'd be
          perfection.


INT. MIDTOWN RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Dinner with Kate, her editor, takes place in a swanky eatery.

                    KATE
          There's work on this...
              (refers to her notes)
          James Whitman...

                    ISABEL
          "Hilter's American Model." It's
          great.

Kate is listening while looking around for a waiter.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          I'm building on his legal angle to
          prove that the origins in different
          eras, different parts of the globe,
          have the same roots. India's next.

                    KATE
          Where is this guy? We've been
          sitting here for what... twenty
          minutes? No bread. No water.

She sees a server filling the glasses at another table. She
waves and mouths "bread please." The server nods, but
continues in the other direction.

                    KATE (CONT'D)
          I think what you've got is enough.
          The Black and Jewish connection
          through the Nuremberg Laws? Solid.
                    (MORE)
                                                      54.

                    KATE (CONT'D)
          Using that as scaffolding for the
          argument is compelling enough.

                    ISABEL
          I'm not arguing anything actually.
          These are facts in plain sight. In
          anthropology, psychology, political
          science, philosophy, history
          writing for years. I'm synthesizing
          so people understand how it works
          in their own lives.

                     KATE
          How Nazis creating the Nuremberg
          laws works in our own lives? It's
          heady, Isabel. Let's maybe consider
          focusing the thesis more. So people
          have a shot at understanding what
          you're getting at. You know?
              (beat)
          Where are these people? I mean, how
          long do we sit here to be ignored?
          That table came after us.
              (then)
          Have you started?

                    ISABEL
          Yes.

                    KATE
          I mean the actual writing.

                    ISABEL
          I'm not ready yet. You know the
          process.

                    KATE
          I know your process. Very well.
          You're an investigator. It's the
          way your mind works. And it's
          beautiful. But even if you slash
          the time it took to finish "Warmth"
          in half, we've got to let go of
          these hold dates.

The waiter finally comes over with water and bread.

                    KATE (CONT'D)
              (to the server)
          What's going on? Why are tables
          that came in after us being served?
          Can you not see us? Is something
          about our table different that's
          made you treat us differently?
                                                          55.


At this point, we realize that Isabel is the only Black
person in the restaurant. The waiter is taken aback.

                    SERVER
          No, ma'am. Not at all. I apologize.
          I'll look into the order right now.

This seems to satisfy Kate. Isabel hasn't said a word about
it. She just watches.

                      ISABEL
          You done?

                      KATE
          What?

                    ISABEL
              (moving on)
          I want those dates.

                    KATE
          I can't hold dates and personnel
          for something that's not on track
          to be finished in time.

                    ISABEL
          I'll hit the date.

                    KATE
          How? It's 14 months away. You know
          we need six months, minimum, with
          the completed material and...

                    ISABEL
          I'll get it done.

                    KATE
          Why are you rushing this?

                    ISABEL
          I'm not rushing. I'm pushing
          myself.

                    KATE
          Why? Take your time. That's your
          style. What's the rush?

                    ISABEL
          Please hold the date, Kate.

                    KATE
              (long, skeptical beat)
          If we miss it, it's my ass.
                                                        56.


                    ISABEL
          I won't miss it.


EXT. MIDTOWN RESTAURANT - A SHORT TIME LATER

The women head out of the restaurant onto the street, pulling
their coats on. A MAN holds the door open for them.

                     KATE
          I'm not great at this kind of
          thing, so forgive me if I'm clumsy
          here. But, how are you holding up?
              (beat)
          I don't want you to leave thinking:
          "She didn't ask." "She doesn't
          care." Because I think of you so
          often. More than you know. But then
          by asking, maybe I'm bringing it up
          and you were having a good day and
          I messed that up.

                    ISABEL
          I'm glad you asked.

                    KATE
          Yeah?

                    ISABEL
          Yeah. There's no day I don't think
          about them. Mom crossed my mind
          just now. She loved when men would
          hold doors for women. She'd be
          offended if the door wasn't held.
          Old-school.

                    KATE
          I'm with her.

Kate tightens her arm around Isabel. They walk on.


INT. RUBY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Isabel sits on her mother's bed. In the empty house. She runs
her hand across the pillow. Takes a moment to feel the space.
She picks up the pillow and puts it in a packing box. She
doesn't want to do this. Her eyes happen upon a crack on the
wall. She follows it with her eyes up to the ceiling.


INT. RUBY'S HOUSE - LATER THAT DAY

A confident Latina realtor, GINA, explores as Isabel follows.
                                                        57.


                    GINA
          Roomy. Fantastic light. Will you
          update it or sell as original?

                    ISABEL
          I'm thinking a fresh coat of paint.

                    GINA
          Vintage it is.

Gina points to peeling wallpaper in a spare bedroom.

                    GINA (CONT'D)
          There might be water damage there.

Gina enters the kitchen, turns on the water. No pressure. Two
or three droplets drip out in a sad, little stream.

                    ISABEL
          With everything going on, I
          basically locked the house up. I
          have to deal with it.

                    GINA
          It's a process. Isn't everything?

                    ISABEL
          What's the price difference between
          fixing it up and selling as is?

                    GINA
          As is? You're basically giving this
          little jewel away. The area is hot
          right now with hipsters. These
          older homes, when they're fixed up,
          sometimes double in value. If you
          can put in couple hundred or so to
          fix it up, you'd have a competitive
          situation with multiple bidders.
              (off Isabel's shock)
          You write books, right?

                    ISABEL
          One book. Working on another. But
          books don't pay like people think.

                    GINA
          I get it. Sell as a fixer and don't
          worry about it. Let someone else do
          the work.
                                                        58.


EXT. RUBY'S HOUSE - DAY

Neighbors on their lawn peer with curiosity. A jogger snoops
mid-stride. Dogs bark in protest. Isabel speaks with an
ARBORIST beneath the magnificent oak tree that has adorned
Ruby's house with beauty for ten decades.

                    ARBORIST
          The heartwood's infected, but it
          ain't spread. I'd take it down now,
          if I was you.

                    ISABEL
          If it hasn't spread, then it can be
          saved, right?

                    ARBORIST
          I ain't a roof guy, but yours ain't
          safe. Got water coming in. If
          water's getting in, other things
          get in. Termites. Mold. What not.

                    ISABEL
          Yes. Of course.

                    ARBORIST
          It's bad up there. Exposed holes to
          the insulation, whole nine. My guys
          can fix it with the tree removal.

                    ISABEL
          Oh, but... I'm not sure yet. My
          mother loved that tree. I don't
          want to cut it down.

                    ARBORIST
          You need it done.
              (impatient beat)
          Lady, I can fix this or I can
          leave. What do you want?

Isabel freezes. He's trying to strong-arm her. She's upset.

And then, we hear a CAR DOOR BANG SHUT across the street.
Isabel turns to find...


EXT. ISABEL'S HOUSE - EARLY EVENING - FLASHBACK

Brett waves to her from across the street.

                     BRETT
          Mornin'.
                                                        59.


                    ISABEL
          Hi. Good morning.

He observes a PEST CONTROL WORKER working on a BUG NEST under
the eaves of her house.

                    BRETT
          Looks like they decided to move in.
          Even built their own guesthouse.

They both squint at the bad joke. The pest man climbs down
from a ladder with the DRIPPING HORNET'S NEST in his gloved
hands, heading to the back of Isabel's house.

                    PEST CONTROL
          Puttin' it in the backyard to empty
          out. Have your gardener get rid of
          it in a day or two.

                    ISABEL
          Wait, sir. Sir? I... I'd rather not
          have it in the yard. I have dogs.
          That spray can't be good for them.

He keeps moving towards the back gate.

                    PEST CONTROL
          It's fine. It won't hurt `em.

Isabel blinks back her frustration. Doesn't push or protest.
Brett's been watching. He crosses the street toward her.

                    BRETT
              (quietly to her)
          Can I help?

She thinks for a second, then nods. He steps forward.

                    BRETT (CONT'D)
          Hey. She said she doesn't want it
          back there. You didn't hear her?

                    PEST CONTROL
          I heard her, but I can't take it
          with me today. My bins are full.

                    BRETT
          You gotta figure something out
          then, don't you? Or did you just
          remove that for free? If it's your
          treat, then you can drop it right
          there. If you wanna get paid,
          buddy, you gotta finish the job.
                                                          60.


Pest Control looks to Isabel, then back to Brett. He goes to
his truck in the driveway and pushes the hive in a bin.

Isabel and Brett watch. Standing on the curb, together.

                    BRETT (CONT'D)
          Did I just mansplain?

                    ISABEL
          You asked for permission. If you
          hadn't...

                    BRETT
          I'd be in white savior mode.

                    ISABEL
              (surprised)
          What do you know about that?

                    BRETT
          I try to break bad habits.

                     ISABEL
              (beat)
          You asked for permission. Let's
          call it being neighborly.
              (then)
          I haven't seen your Mom and Dad on
          their walks much. How are they?

                    BRETT
          They're slowing down. Talking about
          moving to Florida. But, they're
          okay. Hanging in, ya know?

                    ISABEL
          The same with my mother. I get it.

                    BRETT
          My Mom made me promise to come by.
          She always wants to see me on my
          birthday.

                    ISABEL
          Wait? Is today your birthday?

                    BRETT
              (nodding)
          She still bakes me cake like a kid.

                    ISABEL
          Cause you're still her baby. It's
          sweet. Happy birthday...
                                                          61.


                      BRETT
          Brett.

                    ISABEL
          Happy birthday, Brett. Isabel.
              (shaking his hand)
          Birthdays are a big deal.

                      BRETT
          They are?

                    ISABEL
          They should be.

He takes her in. Somehow, he doesn't want to leave her.

                    BRETT
          Why not come over and grab a slice
          of cake? Mom'd love it. You could
          help me make it a big deal. I have
          no idea how to do that.

She takes him in, calculating. Then...

                    ISABEL
          I haven't seen your folks in a
          while. Sure, I'll come and say hi.


EXT. RUBY'S HOUSE - DAY

Isabel allows her memory to guide her now.

                    ARBORIST
          Lady, I can fix this or I can
          leave. What do you want?

                    ISABEL
          My mother loved this tree. If
          there's a solution that doesn't
          involve cutting it down, I'm happy
          to consider it. If not, I'll pay
          the service fee and we can call it
          a day. No hard feelings.

                     ARBORIST
              (sigh)
          Let me take another look.

Isabel nods with no satisfaction.
                                                           62.


EXT. CITY PARK - UNITED STATES - DAY

If you've never been to a Black family reunion, feast your
eyes on the food, the fun and the festivities.

FRANKIE BEVERLY AND MAZE's "Happy Feelings" plays on a large
speaker that shimmies with sound. Old folks and young-uns and
everyone in between dance and take delight in each other.

Several BBQs are on full blast. A spades game at one table.
Uno at another. Loud boasts and brags can be heard from both.

Standing near the BBQ pit and the long serving table are
Marion and Isabel working on replenishing the food.

Marion moves around like a pro, but this time with a CANE.

                    MARION
          An arborist? What the hell is that?

                    ISABEL
          It's a tree doctor.

                    MARION
          Is it that serious? Lord. What's it
          all costing?

Two twentysomethings, PATRICE and ANDRE, saunter through.

                    MARION (CONT'D)
          What?

                    ANDRE
          Respectfully, we - and everybody -
          are wondering about an ETA?

Marion looks at Isabel, deadpan. Isabel muffles a laugh.

                    MARION
          The ETA is when I say it's ready.

                     ANDRE
          Yes, ma'am.
              (then)
          Aunt Isabel, how you been?

                    PATRICE
          Yeah, how are you holding up?

The sympathy they offer changes the tone.

                    ISABEL
          All's well. You both good?
                                                        63.


                    PATRICE
          Oh yeah. Everything's good. I was
          going to ask if you knew one of my
          professors. Dr. Montgomery. I think
          he studies the things you do.

                    ISABEL
          Doesn't ring a bell, but I haven't
          been keeping up like I used to.

                    PATRICE
          Of course. Yeah. Well, he's a smart
          man. A nice older gentleman. I
          thought you might like to meet him.
          Handsome for his age. Black.

This catches Isabel off-guard. Marion steps in.

                    MARION
          Here, take this to the Uno table.
          Let folks know we'll start in ten.

Patrice and Andre grab the bag of chips and head off.

                    MARION (CONT'D)
          They mean well.

                    ISABEL
          Brett always looked forward to
          these. Only you and Mama really let
          him in.

                    MARION
          People weren't mean.

                     ISABEL
          No, but there was always that.
          What's she doing with him when she
          could have a good brother? I even
          thought it at one point, I guess.
              (beat)
          The containers we're in. Maybe the
          label on your container says Black
          woman, maybe it says white man,
          maybe it says Muslim or immigrant
          or Asian, whatever it says. We
          assume that because we read the
          label, we know what's inside. Trust
          the label, put the container on the
          shelf and that's it. That's what
          the book is about in a way.

                    MARION
          About interracial relationships?
                                                64.


                    ISABEL
          No. I'm looking at caste, the
          phenomenon of setting one group of
          people over another and the
          consequences to the victims and
          presumed beneficiaries.

Marion looks back at her with a blank stare.

                    MARION
          Can you repeat that in English?
          Pulitzer Prize-less.
              (a challenge)
          If you can.

                    ISABEL
          Of course, I can.

                    MARION
          Then do it. Please. Make it plain.
          The Nazi stuff got me all twisted
          around. How's that in the same book
          about Brett? I don't get it.

                    ISABEL
              (thinking, then new idea)
          Was slavery a system of torture and
          terrorism that Europeans used to
          profit on the labor of Black people
          who they considered inferior?

                    MARION
          Yes. Hell, yeah, it was.

Isabel shakes her head no.

                    MARION (CONT'D)
          Yes, it was.

                    ISABEL
          They made it up, Marion. Race is
          not real. It's pseudoscientific
          nonsense that they used in their
          quest for supremacy. They made it
          all up. Toni Morrison said, you
          don't give your children to be
          nursed and raised by people you
          feel aren't human. Who are animals.

                       MARION
          Yes, Toni.
                                                65.


                    ISABEL
          They knew that was a lie. They knew
          we weren't inferior. All of it was
          lies. But they magnified those
          myths and codified them - set them
          in stone - inside systems. In our
          laws, our medical care, where we
          live, how we learn, what work we
          do, even our food.

                    MARION
          Racism at its finest.

                    ISABEL
          Caste.

                    MARION
          Everything you said is racist.

                    ISABEL
          Then what do you call the same
          thing happening in India? They're
          all brown. All Indian. They have a
          whole system with generations of
          people forced to clean sewers with
          their hands to this day. Right now.
          A certain kind of person some call
          Dalits. They're beneath the bottom
          of the hierarchy. At one point,
          they were forced to wear brooms
          tied around their waists because
          their shadow was supposedly
          polluted. Their shadow. Had to
          sweep behind themselves when they
          walked. How's it racist if they're
          the same race?

Marion raises an eyebrow. Good point.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
              (on a roll)
          You consider Jews to be white?

                    MARION
          Definitely.

                    ISABEL
          Okay, the majority are and the same
          thing happened to them during the
          Holocaust. Nazis wanted an all-
          white republic. And they hated
          Jews. So how did they make the Jews
          not white? Put them at the bottom
          of the hierarchy.
                    (MORE)
                                                        66.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          Start with they're greedy, they're
          dishonest, they're to blame for all
          that's wrong in Germany. They're
          dogs. Gas them. Kill them. Wipe
          them out. Nazis and Jews were the
          same color.

Marion nods, getting it.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          We've got to consider oppression
          without always centralizing race.
          It's hard to grasp being American
          because it's all we know. But these
          three containers have a lot in
          common - and the label called race
          isn't one of them. It's caste.

                    MARION
              (a long, smiling beat)
          Only took you 10 minutes for that
          comeback.

Isabel smiles, feeling good about herself.

                    MARION (CONT'D)
          Figure out how to say more of what
          you just said. Make it plain. Talk
          to real people. Like you just did
          to me. Real people. Real things.

Marion goes back to her tasks. Isabel takes in the advice.


INT. HOME OF MISS HALE/LIVING ROOM - DAY

FIVE ADORABLE SMALL CHILDREN of varying ages run towards
Isabel. She kneels down and opens her arms wide to receive a
gaggle of hugs and giggles.

Their mother, MISS HALE, the picture of energetic motherhood,
enters with a smile. She wipes her hands with a dishcloth.

                    MISS HALE
              (to the kids)
          You have 30 minutes of reading time
          left please. Back in the school
          room, please.

The 12-year-old and 9-year-old grab their chubby-cheeked
three- and 4-year-old siblings, with the 7-year-old trailing
to get one last word with Isabel before running off.
                                                        67.


                    SEVEN
          Mommie made your favorite.

                      ISABEL
          She did!?

                    SEVEN
          Yep. It's my favorite, too. It's so
          good, Ms. Isabel. She only makes it
          when you come because you love it.

                    ISABEL
          I do love it. It's the sauce that's
          my favorite part.

                    MISS HALE
              (from the other room)
          I'm missing a child in here please!

                    SEVEN
              (whisper)
          Me, too.

Seven runs off. Isabel, familiar with the house, heads into
the kitchen, grabs a spoon and takes a taste of the sauce.

                      MISS HALE
          Isabel!

                    ISABEL
              (caught, laughing)
          I'm sorry, it's just...

                    MISS HALE
          You're just as bad as these kids!


INT. MISS HALE/DINING ROOM TO KITCHEN - DAY

The homemade lasagna has been enthusiastically eaten and the
kids are getting put to bed by Miss Hale's husband, JAMES.
Before they leave, they all bid her a good night.

                    KIDS
          Good night, Ms. Isabel./See you
          next time./Night, night!

                    JAMES
          Isabel, come by more often, will
          ya? We seem to only get the lasagna
          when you're around.

Hugs and good vibes. Clearing the table commences.
                                                        68.


                    MISS HALE
          I can't believe you want to
          interview me of all people.

                     ISABEL
          Of course, I do. You're a dynamo.
              (beat)
          Your kids are perfect. Your husband
          is a sweetheart. I mean...

Isabel smiles at Miss. A beat as Miss looks back at her
friend, her heart full. She goes to hug Isabel. A sisterly
embrace that takes on new meaning with how long Miss hangs
on. Isabel holds her tight, appreciating her sympathy.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          I'm okay. Promise.


EXT. MISS HALE'S BACKYARD PATIO - A SHORT TIME LATER

Miss sits in the backyard on a deck chair across from Isabel
who has her PORTABLE TAPE RECORDER going and her notebook
out. We catch the women in mid-conversation.

                    MISS HALE
          Growing up, he watched white folk -
          complete strangers, children even -
          call his mother and grandmother by
          their first names. Teenagers had
          the nerve to call out `Pearlie' to
          his mother instead of `Mrs. Hale.'
          He hated that disrespect.

                    ISABEL
          This is in Alabama, right?

                    MISS HALE
          Selma. The family house is a few
          blocks from the Bridge. He marched
          the day the bridge was attacked.

                    ISABEL
          Wow. I didn't know that.

                    MISS HALE
          He was a kid. Was way in the back
          of the group. He didn't get hurt,
          but what he saw never left him. So,
          he decided if there was one thing
          he would do, he'd make them respect
          the next generation in his line.
          Imagine a young Black man plotting
          to force respect from white folks.
                    (MORE)
                                                69.

                    MISS HALE (CONT'D)
          Decided he'd name his firstborn
          `Miss' so they'd have no option but
          to call me with the respect my
          grandmother never got.

Isabel takes furious notes.

                    ISABEL
          That's direct defiance of caste.
          The most personal I've heard yet.

                    MISS HALE
          I think one of the happiest times I
          ever saw him was when this name
          payed off exactly the way he always
          dreamed it.

                    ISABEL
          I need all the details.

                    MISS HALE
          You sound like Dad. The day I came
          home from school and told him what
          happened, he needed every detail.
          `What'd they say? And then what'd
          you say? And what after that?'
          Could barely contain himself.

                    ISABEL
          That's me right now.

                    MISS HALE
          Okay! So I was in tenth grade and
          we'd just moved to Texas. My friend
          and I had these walkie-talkies we'd
          use between classes to talk or
          whatever. Pre-cell phones, of
          course. This is the late 80s. One
          day, the principal calls me into
          his office, all suspicious, wanting
          to know why these people were
          gathered around my locker. So I
          showed him the walkie-talkie. He
          asked my name. `Miss Hale,' I said.
          `What's your first name?' `It's
          Miss.' `I said, what is your first
          name?' `My name is Miss.' `I don't
          have time for this foolishness,
          gal. What's your real name?' I
          repeated my damn name about four
          times.
                                                           70.


                    ISABEL
          Your father tore a loophole in the
          hierarchy. It's brilliant.

                    MISS HALE
          So, the principal is furious. Tells
          the secretary to check my records.
          Of course, they confirm that my
          legal name is Miss Hale. He then
          says: `Hale. I don't know any
          Hales. You're not from around here.
          Where is your father from?' I said
          `He's from Alabama.'
              (a sad beat)
          He said: `I knew you weren't from
          around here. Know how I knew?' I
          said no. He said, real cold, `You
          looking me in the eye. Colored folk
          `round here know better.' Then told
          me to get the hell out.

The moment still hurts. Miss shakes her head, gazing out.

                    MISS HALE (CONT'D)
          My Daddy'd told me again and again
          to live up to my name. He'd say:
          `They don't have the corner on
          humanity. They don't have the
          corner on femininity. They don't
          have the corner on what it means to
          be a whole, noble, honorable
          person.' Quite the opposite.

She takes a sip of her red wine, defiant - like her Dad.


INT. ISABEL'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Isabel is curled up on her couch watching a video on her
laptop of an academic conference.

ON THE VIDEO: An ornate room with a small group of prominent
academics, a mix of Indian-Americans and Indian nationals. An
INDIAN-AMERICAN WOMAN, a conference leader, speaks.

A man shifts in his seat uncomfortably. It is Dr. Suraj
Yengde. The traveler that Isabel saw years ago in the airport
with the Ambedkar bust.

                    INDIAN WOMAN
          We proudly bestow this Ambedkar
          Award to Dr. Suraj Yengde,
          postdoctoral fellow at the Harvard
          Kennedy School.
                                                        71.


As he takes the award, Suraj doesn't meet anyone's eyes.
CLOSE on Isabel, clocking his discomfort and taking notes.


EXT. AMHERST CONFERENCE - ANOTHER DAY

Isabel sits on a bench on campus with Suraj.

                    SURAJ
          It was the people in the room.
          Their last names. Names have little
          meaning in America, but they
          signify rank in India. And the last
          names in that room? Some of the
          most revered back home.

Isabel nods, trying to understand.

                    SURAJ (CONT'D)
              (confiding)
          I can't look them in the eye. In
          India, they would not speak to me.

                    ISABEL
          I guess I assumed the caste system
          in India didn't follow people here.
          In the modern day. Naive of me.

He looks at her with kind eyes, wrestling with how to
explain. Then, he points down to his leather sneakers, bends
and presses the toe area to make an indentation.

                    SURAJ
          These shoes I bought back home are
          not my size. They're too big for
          me. I did not have the confidence
          to ask for my size. I bought them
          because I could not trouble the
          salesman. I bought what he gave me.

                    ISABEL
          What would he have done if you
          asked for your size?

                    SURAJ
          Thrown me out. Called the police.
          Worse. You must stay in your place.
          My place isn't freely buying things
          I want from their stores.

Her surprise pushes him to elaborate. He leans in.
                                                        72.


                    SURAJ (CONT'D)
          We have a feeling of danger with
          them. Even in that room that day.
          Getting an award. To them, I'm not
          where I should be. They don't like
          that, no matter what they say. I
          have been here in the States for
          three years. On a university
          campus, where we all have the same
          degrees. Still, they are a danger
          to me. That's how I feel. Alone.

A moment of understanding between them.

                    ISABEL
          I've read your work on Dr.
          Ambedkar. I'm embarrassed to say
          I'd never heard of him until that
          day at the airport. It seems
          unbelievable to me now. His work is
          central to my thoughts these days.

                    SURAJ
          We call him Babasaheb. It means
          `Respected Father.' He wrote and
          spoke extensively about people in
          the so-called upper caste, and it's
          the same as what's happening here
          to your people.

                    ISABEL
          There's something to that
          correlation, don't you think?
          Between us. Black people and
          Dalits. And others?

                    SURAJ
          Indigenous. Palestinian. Yes.
          That's a part of my work. There's
          been some scholarship about this,
          but it needs continued analysis.
          And amplification. From all sides.
          Because those who don't want us to
          acknowledge it benefit from it
          remaining unexamined, don't they?


INT. MARION'S HOME - DAY

A much thinner Marion sits in her bed covered in a quilt,
working on a family photo album as Isabel looks through
pictures in an album of her own.
                                                        73.


Each time, we've seen Marion, we've seen her at a pharmacy or
with a cane. This time there is no doubt. She's not well.
But, her spirit is still lively. The cousins are in mid-
conversation, smiling and laughing.

                    MARION
          How much is it?

                    ISABEL
          All four estimates came in over
          10,000 dollars.

                    MARION
          You have a picture of Uncle Irving
          at all? I can't find one of him
          alone. Only with the cousins.

                       ISABEL
          I'll look.

                    MARION
          Well, you can't sell a roofless
          house.

                    ISABEL
          It'll have to wait `til I'm back.

                    MARION
          You leave when again?

                    ISABEL
          Next month. I have so much research
          to do here and I have to start a
          draft soon.

                    MARION
          Been saying that for six months.

                    ISABEL
          I'm not ready yet.

                    MARION
          And saying that for six months. Do
          you even know anyone in India?

                    ISABEL
          That's the point of traveling.

                    MARION
          Traveling to places where you're
          warmly welcomed by familiar faces
          is underrated.
                                                        74.


                    ISABEL
          I've been emailing with a professor
          who might help me navigate.

                    MARION
          Might?

Marion reaches for something we hadn't noticed before now:
oxygen. She has a tank nearby and takes relief. Isabel's
worry is apparent as she watches Marion struggle.

                    ISABEL
          You know, I could stay for a bit.

                    MARION
          Go, so when you get home, you can
          finally start writing this thing.
          Folks should know about it.

Isabel takes that in. High praise from Marion.

                    MARION (CONT'D)
          I don't have my arms all the way
          around it, but I was thinking about
          those containers, with the labels.
          Like, Uncle Dennis...

She holds up a picture of a young Black man playing dice with
friends and smiling circa 1940.

                     MARION (CONT'D)
          Most people would look at him and
          never know what was inside. He
          loved Beethoven and the Beatles
          made the best peach cheesecake you
          ever tasted and loved Twilight
          Zone. Knew the titles of every
          single damn episode. Unlikely.
              (beat)
          Maybe... Maybe not.

Marion places the picture carefully back into her album as
Isabel watches.


INT. ISABEL'S HOUSE - DAY

Isabel nuzzles her dogs and goes to grab her purse. Then, she
looks to the hook marked KEYS and they aren't there.

She freezes as she looks at the empty hook.
                                                        75.


QUICK FLASHBACKS: Brett finding keys in the laundry room,
Ruby finding keys behind the blender another day, Brett
finding keys still in the ignition, Ruby finding keys still
in the door. When they hand them to Isabel, they laugh at
her, or kiss her, or scold her, or toss them without fanfare.

She begins to look for the keys, retracing her steps. Behind
cushions. On top of the fridge. In the bathroom. She finally
finds them on her desk.

Isabel stares at the keys in her hand. Then, in an aggressive
move that we've not seen from her, she THROWS THEM HARD
across the room, knocking a plant over.

She stands alone in the house, trembling.


EXT/INT. DELHI AIRPORT - NIGHT

Out of immigration, Isabel searches. Becoming anxious as she
looks closely at each driver with a sign. Her name isn't on
any of them. She goes outside. Searching. Checking her cell
phone. No service.

Finally, she spies an OLD INDIAN MAN with deeply lined, dark
brown skin standing far away from the crowd. He holds a small
sign. She walks closer with high hopes and, alas, sees her
name. She waves. He waves sweetly.


EXT. DELHI STREETS - CONTINUOUS

She sits in the back seat of the TUK-TUK, a open air three-
wheel motorized cart. He skillfully drives within a crush of
cars, mopeds, pedestrians and other vehicles on the road,
speeding into the unmarked lanes like the rest.

She sends an email with the subject header "Marion" on her
Blackberry to Marion's partner, Teddy. "Hi Teddy: I've just
landed in India. How is she?"

Isabel watches this new world passing by. Scenes of life in
Delhi. People shopping. People cooking on the street. A DELHI
MOTHER cleaning the face of her YOUNG SON. MEN huddled near a
food stall awaiting a courtesy meal. Teenagers holding hands.

All the while, her heart heavy.


EXT. DELHI BOUTIQUE INN - LATER THAT NIGHT

Throngs of people, even in the middle of the night. The Tuk-
Tuk pulls up to one of many boutique hotels.
                                                        76.


Isabel exits with her roller bag. She pays the driver, asking
him if it's enough. He nods and actually gives her a couple
of coins back. She hands them back to him.

Neither speaks each other's language, but they communicate
through the kindness in both their eyes.


INT. BOUTIQUE INN - NIGHT

The INNKEEPER opens the door and Isabel walks into a clean
stark room. The overhead fan causes the CLOSED BRIGHT GOLD
CURTAINS to dance on the far wall.

She turns to thank the woman, who closes the door with a nod.

Her email pings. There's a reply from Teddy. It reads: "She's
comfortable. Not able to talk now, but hanging in."

Isabel sets down her suitcase and takes off her jacket and
blouse in the heat, heads to the window, drenched.

She opens the curtains to reveal a STUNNING VIEW of the city,
the energy of lights rushing into the dim room. Both the
poverty and the majesty of all this humanity overwhelm her,
especially so far from Marion. She closes her eyes and
breathes deeply.


EXT. DELHI STREETS - DAY

Isabel stands on the edge of the roadside. With a fanny pack
strapped around her waist, she considers how to cross the
busiest street she's ever seen.

No lanes. No speed limits. No rules. Just a wide open stretch
of asphalt with cars, mopeds, bikes and vans hurtling in
every direction. She'll never make it across.

A tall, distinguished Indian man, waves as he comes toward
her. It is Suraj. He's accompanied by a colleague, RAM. They
embrace warmly.

            SURAJ                          ISABEL
Isabel!                         Suraj!

                     SURAJ
          Allow me to introduce my colleague,
          Professor Rawat.

                    ISABEL
          Hello, Professor. It's a pleasure.
                                                           77.


                    RAM
          Please call me Ram. And the
          pleasure is mine.

                                                  CUT TO:

The trio race across the intersection and down the road,
passing sidewalk shrines to Hindu deities, adorned with
garlands. The men point out various people and places.

Isabel stops to browse a cart with brightly colored handmade
scarves. She selects one proudly.

                    ISABEL
          For my cousin.

They pass a STATUE in a cage. The figure is of a stocky man,
in a western suit, tie and glasses. There's a pen in his
front pocket and he holds the Indian constitution.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          Why is the statue caged?

                    RAM
          Ah. Observant. Babasaheb. Leader of
          the Dalits.

                    SURAJ
          Isabel. It's Dr. Ambedkar.

                    ISABEL
          Oh wow. He looks different here.

                    SURAJ
          This is an image from when he
          converted to Buddhism.

                     ISABEL
          Ah, I see.
              (drawn in)
          He looks hopeful here. Beautiful.

                    SURAJ
          He is those things to many of us.
          All over the country, you'll see
          his statues. Parks, road crossings,
          railway stations, in villages and
          cities both. To us, he's revered.
          To others, they revile him. The
          cage is to keep the vandals away.

They walk on. We linger with Ambedkar.
                                                              78.




99A   EXT/INT. AMBEDKAR NATIONAL MEMORIAL - DAY                   99A

      Walking towards the memorial building, Isabel is transfixed.

                          SURAJ
                The site of Dr. Ambedkar's original
                home is now a museum. Quite
                magnificent. The building is shaped
                like an open book to commemorate
                the Indian Constitution that he
                helped draft.

      They enter the building. Inside an INDIAN WOMAN DOCENT, shows
      the trio around. There is a beautiful statue of Ambedkar,
      life-sized. Dynamic.

                           ISABEL
                Hello, Sir.
                    (beat)
                No cages here.

      She sits on a small bench near a schoolhouse exhibit. The
      docent begins to tell a story.

                          INDIAN WOMAN DOCENT
                As a boy, Dr. Ambedkar walked to
                the schoolhouse carrying a gunny.


      EXT./INT. INDIA SCHOOLHOUSE - 1900 - DAY

      Dozens of little legs run up steps to a classroom. One boy
      lags behind, waiting his turn to enter after the others. This
      is YOUNG AMBEDKAR, 9. He carries a mat, rolled under his arm.

      Inside the class, his small, brown hands smooth the edges of
      the jute mat that he places on the floor in the corner of the
      room. CLASSMATES go to great lengths to avoid passing him.

                          INDIAN WOMAN DOCENT (V.O.)
                He was separated from kids of high
                caste, so as not to pollute them.

      Watching instruction by the TEACHER from across the room,
      Young Ambedkar is not upset. He's not emotional. The sweet
      boy counts on his fingers to solve a math problem with the
      rest of the students. But his big brown eyes take in a view
      of the blackboard through the little legs of his classmates
      at their desks because Young Ambedkar is seated on the floor.
                                                        79.


                    INDIAN WOMAN DOCENT (V.O.)
          He was not allowed to touch things
          his classmates would touch. Desk
          included. He was not allowed to
          even touch the school's water.

Students dunk a wooden cup in a large water vessel to refresh
themselves. Young Ambedkar waits alone at a separate pump
until a GARDENER approaches and opens the tap.

The boy twists his head upside down as water rushes straight
into his mouth and all over his face. He is trying to drink,
unable to touch anything. Struggling to breath and swallow.

Once the tap is closed, he wipes his little hands on his
shorts and his sweet face with the sleeve of his shirt. As if
this is perfectly normal. Because for him, it is.


EXT. CAMPUS COURTYARD - LATER

Isabel records Suraj, Ram and Dalit intellectuals on an L-
shaped sofa, including JAJULA, a Dalit woman scholar.

                    SURAJ
          Are you a vegetarian or a pure
          vegetarian? Not a question you
          would expect on an application for
          a new flat in 2023. But, it is a
          legal way to determine if we are
          Dalits. Brahmins are mostly
          vegetarians. Most Dalits aren't
          pure vegetarian. So landlords will
          ask that. And our answer is a basis
          for denial of an apartment without
          them technically breaking anti-
          caste laws.

Isabel takes it all in, her eyes opening to what they share.

                    JAJULA
          My thesis centered on Dr. King's
          visit to India. He saw many of
          these things first-hand while he
          and Mrs. King toured the country.

                     ISABEL
          Wow. What was the specific focus on
          your work?

                    JAJULA
          I explored his own analysis of his
          visit.
                    (MORE)
                                                           80.

                    JAJULA (CONT'D)
          I found the way in which he wrote
          about India to be fascinating as
          someone afflicted by caste in his
          own country. I used his essay in a
          magazine in the United States as
          the core of the research. Do you
          know Ebony Magazine?

                    ISABEL
          He wrote about India in Ebony?

                    JAJULA
          Yes! July 1959. It is quite
          extraordinary. He goes into great
          detail about the five weeks that
          they visited. They toured the whole
          country. Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta.
          Dr. King wrote specifically about
          caste in that article.

                    ISABEL
          He used the word `caste'?

                    JAJULA
          Several times. He's explaining it
          to the readers of `Ebony.' Those
          are African-American readers,
          correct?

                     ISABEL
          Yes! Yes, they are.
              (beat)
          Did Dr. Ambedkar ever offer a
          solution on how to fight caste?

They respond enthusiastically in the affirmative. Isabel
holds her recorder closer to them, capturing it all.

                    JAJULA
          He believed that the custom of only
          marrying within one's social group
          and barring marriages between
          different types of people was the
          culprit.

                    ISABEL
          Endogamy. Preventing intermarriage.

                    SURAJ
          Yes. He called caste the artificial
          chopping up of the population into
          fixed and definite units. For
          Americans, the units are Black,
          Brown, Asian, white, etc.
                    (MORE)
                                                        81.

                     SURAJ (CONT'D)
           Here it is Brahmins and Dalits and
           others in between. That is one of
           the tenets of arranged marriages
           here. He believed keeping people of
           different kinds from marrying each
           other was the origin of caste.

Isabel takes notes as the group continues to chatter. Her
mind is spinning.


INT.   SHUTTLE - DAY

Her kind Indian driver commandeers the van through the hectic
city streets. Isabel, her luggage by her side, is in the
backseat. The urban landscape of Delhi zips past the window.

We hear Dr. King's voice from the referenced Ebony article.

                     DR. KING (V.O.)
           In contrast to those in poverty,
           there are Indians who are rich,
           have luxurious estates, land, fine
           clothes. And then there is the
           problem of segregation. We call it
           race in America. They call it caste
           in India. In both places, it means
           that some are considered inferior,
           treated as though they deserve
           less. The bourgeoisie behaves the
           same the world over.

As she says goodbye to India, Isabel receives a TEXT ALERT.

It's from Teddy. It simply reads: "I think it will be today."

Her face falls. She starts to dial while gesturing to the
driver to please pull over somewhere.

Her eyes begin to glisten. He tries to find a place to stop.

He pulls up to SAFDARJANG'S TOMB, a marble and red sandstone
structure with several courtyards and octagonal towers.


EXT. SAFDARJANG'S TOMB - A FEW MOMENTS LATER

Isabel holds the phone close to her ear, not clocking where
she is as she walks through a long shadowed TUNNEL.
                                                           82.


INT. MARION'S HOUSE - SAME TIME

Teddy stands at the window on the phone with Isabel. Then,
walks to the bed revealing Marion.

Her state is alarming. Completely still, eyes closed, on a
breathing machine.

INTERCUT ISABEL IN INDIA and MARION'S HOME.

                    TEDDY
              (into the phone)
          I'll hold up the phone.

He touches Marion's shoulder gently.

                    TEDDY (CONT'D)
              (to Marion)
          Baby.

She doesn't rouse. Just labored breathing through the
machine. He puts the phone on SPEAKER.

                    TEDDY (CONT'D)
          You're on speaker. She's... she's
          not responding to folks.

                    ISABEL
          I understand.

CLOSE on Isabel. Trying to get her bearings. Control her
emotions, which are overflowing. She emerges from the tunnel
into the stunning architectural surroundings.

But she looks to the sky. To the clouds over this majestic
place. She focuses on ONE CLOUD.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
              (then, softly)
          Marion. It's Isabel. I believe that
          you can hear me. I'm calling you
          now to say goodbye.

Teddy drops his head, covers his mouth with one hand and
holds the phone with the other.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          I want you to know that you have
          meant so much to me. I will never
          forget our talks. I've remembered
          everything you said. Everything.
          From when we were kids to the last
          time I heard your voice. I promise
          you...
                    (MORE)
                                                          83.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          I'll never forget you for as long
          as I'm still here. You will walk
          and live in me. I'll never forget
          you.

Teddy takes Marion's hand, overcome. Isabel continues.
Focusing on the cloud that is taking shape.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          My father and your father were so
          close. They loved each other so
          much, didn't they? They passed it
          on to us. We were so lucky. Watch
          out for me please. Cover me, okay?
          You'll have that power soon. I
          won't see you. But you'll see me.
          There's more to life than what we
          can see. You're going to experience
          it all.

Marion's face relaxes in a way that feels like peace. Her
head moves ever so slightly. Teddy kisses her cheek.

WIDE on Isabel. She drops to her knees.


INT. ISABEL'S HOUSE - DAY

The door opens to reveal Isabel with her luggage. She steps
inside, sets down her bags.

Then, she stands there. Still. There will be no hug from
Brett. There will be no visit to Ruby. There will be no call
from Marion. We feel their absence as we watch her.

But something has changed, she has a resolve. Something
internal, intimate. A light within her guides her forward.

She removes her coat. Underneath, she wears the scarf she
bought for Marion. She loops it around her neck.

She's ready to WRITE THIS BOOK. She steps PAST THE CAMERA.


INT. ISABEL'S OFFICE - MULTIPLE DAYS

Isabel rolls a suitcase into the room and kneels to open it.
She unzips the suitcase to reveal a BEVY of BOOKS. She
removes them like treasures, stopping at one by Ambedkar.

Over a montage, we hear her voice in her head. Writing.

Isabel reaches for a marker and makes notes on a LARGE
WHITEBOARD near her desk entitled "The Pillars of Caste."
                                                         84.


                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Dr. Ambedkar wrote: Caste is an
          artificial chopping up of the
          population into fixed units.

She writes the words: Pillar #1: "Endogamy: Control of
Marriage and Mating."

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Each unit is prevented from fusing
          into another through the custom
          called endogamy. In showing how
          endogamy is maintained, we can
          prove the genesis and mechanism of
          caste.

FRAMED PHOTOGRAPHS. We jump across images of HER PARENTS in a
loving embrace and of her and Brett, hugging and smiling.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Endogamy is defined as restricting
          marriage to people within the same
          caste.

She sits at her desk, with great focus. Sets down a piping
hot cup of tea.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          This is an ironclad foundation of
          any caste system - from ancient
          India, to the Nazi regime to the
          American colonizers.

Isabel opens her laptop with purpose. She punches keys to
bring up a fresh document.

CLOSE on her face. Ready. Typing: CASTE. By Isabel Wilkerson


INT. GERMANY/DENMARK BORDER 1937 - NIGHT

August and Irma drive down a dusty road in a truck through
the grasslands, holding hands. Worried, but determined.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Endogamy enforces caste boundaries
          by forbidding marriage, sexual
          relations or even the appearance of
          romantic interest across caste
          lines. It builds a firewall between
          certain people.

Then, the couple's expressions become wrought with fear. Up
ahead, is a BLOCKADE of law enforcement.
                                                           85.


                    IRMA
              (whispers)
          August.

                       AUGUST
          No.

                       IRMA
          Oh my God.

He looks to her and kisses her hand. It's all he can do.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          By closing off legal family
          connection, endogamy purposely
          blocks a sense of empathy and
          shared destiny between people.

They exit the car at GUNPOINT, eyes locked on each other over
the hood. And then their worst fear -- the officials lift the
canvas in the back of the truck.

CLOSE on what they find: A FIVE YEAR OLD GIRL huddled in the
corner with a teddy bear in her arms. Irma screams. August
wrestles with the officers.

Their daughter is lifted from the truck by uniformed men as
August and Irma are arrested, taken in different directions.


INT. RUBY'S HOUSE - PRESENT DAY

A CABINET REFURBISHER walks through with a drill one minute.
Passing back with cabinets doors and hinges the next.

In the dining room, Isabel is buried in a book.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          One of the foremost scholars of
          caste in America once wrote: `Tied
          to what one looked like, membership
          in either the upper or the lowest
          caste is immutable, primordial,
          fixed from birth to death,
          inescapable. One may neither earn
          nor wed their way out.'

She writes on a WHITEBOARD in Ruby's dining room: Pillar #5:
"Occupational Hierarchy."
                                                          86.


EXT. MISSISSIPPI DELTA COTTON FIELD - DAY

The scene depicted on the cover of a book that she took from
her home office shelf long ago: Three Black people in a 1930s
pick-up truck.

The TRUCK zooms by as the three people in the truck watch a
conversation happening on the side of the dirt road.

Those having the conversation seem uneasy with being watched.

A WHITE MAN, Burleigh Gardner and a WHITE WOMAN, Mary Gardner
are clearly uncomfortable with the passersby. From behind, a
BLACK MAN tips his straw hat to the people in the truck.

                     ISABEL (V.O.)
          That scholar was Dr. Allison Davis.
              (beat)
          And he did the majority of his
          ground-breaking work undercover.

The CAMERA PANS from Burleigh and Mary to reveal Allison
Davis, standing next to his wife, Elizabeth. The couple we
followed in Berlin during the Nazi book burning.

They look very different from the dapper pair we saw in
Germany. Allison is in overalls while Elizabeth wears a
simple handmade sundress.

                    ALLISON
              (to Burleigh and Mary)
          They're okay.

                    MARY
          You sure? There's no telling what
          this town'll do if they find out.

                    ELIZABETH
          We all know what they'd do.

A beat of trepidation, then...

                    ALLISON
          Let's stay on topic. There's
          nothing we can do about it now. And
          we have quite a bit to review.

They nod and listen to him intently. He's clearly the boss.

                    ELIZABETH
          Well, we finally got proof that
          that one land owner, Bailey, has
          been whipping sharecroppers.
                    (MORE)
                                                        87.

                    ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
          A tenant farmer named Bo told me
          Bailey said if he didn't stop
          `acting so big,' the next time it'd
          be "a bullet or a rope."

Mary shakes her head in disgust.

                    MARY
          Bailey's wife told me...
              (reading from her notes)
          `That's the way to manage `em when
          they get too uppity.'

Allison nods with encouragement.

                    BURLEIGH
          We heard about a tenant farmer next
          county over who was beaten so badly
          by a store merchant, he can't bring
          in a crop. We're heading over there
          tomorrow to the store.

                    ALLISON
          Do we know what sparked that?

                    MARY
          The Negro MAN asked for a receipt.

                    BURLEIGH
          Beat him right there in the store.

The quartet stands in a field far from the town. As they
speak, they look up and down the road, constantly monitoring
their surroundings with an air of apprehension.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          In the fall of 1933, Alison Davis
          and his wife Elizabeth cut short
          their advanced studies at the
          University of Berlin and fled
          Germany when Hitler took power.
          They'd seen the Nazis burn books
          and jail teachers, and this gave
          Dr. Davis new insight into the
          nature of hate. It inspired him to
          study the process of injustice.

The team finish their meeting and head to their cars.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Davis was a young anthropologist
          with two degrees from Harvard
          University and a wealth of
          experience abroad.
                    (MORE)
                                                        88.

                    ISABEL (V.O.) (CONT'D)
          But, once in Mississippi, he had to
          conceal all of that to survive. One
          slip-up, one breach of the social
          order, could cost them all their
          lives.

Inside the car, Allison adjusts the GUN tucked into the back
of his belt. Elizabeth glances down at it for a moment as he
adjusts it to drive, satisfied that they have it.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          And this was exactly what they were
          doing in Natchez, Mississippi:
          breaching the social order to study
          the social hierarchy of the South.
          A mission that would render them
          undercover investigators in order
          to fit into the community. The
          other half of their team was...

Burleigh and Mary Gardner start their car and make a U-turn.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          ... a white couple named Burleigh
          and Mary Gardner, also Harvard
          anthropologists. Less experienced,
          but passionate about the topic. The
          mission was quietly revolutionary.
          Together, all four would embed
          themselves in an isolated southern
          town from both sides of the caste
          divide. This would be one of the
          first studies of its kind.

Both cars take off in different directions.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          But coming from the North, neither
          couple fully knew what they were
          getting themselves into.


EXT/INT. NATCHEZ, MISSISSIPPI - VARIOUS LOCATIONS

The elaborate process taken to conduct the landmark research.

QUICK CUT: Elizabeth Davis pushing her cart in the GROCERY
STORE. She stops to inspect the canned goods, when Mary
passes her without acknowledgement. A BLACK MAID pushes her
cart for her. Elizabeth makes eye contact with the maid, nods
out of respect. While Elizabeth distracts the Black woman,
Mary retrieves a SMALL NOTEBOOK from near the canned goods.
                                                         89.


                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Out in public, they had to remain
          in character at all times, with the
          Davises required to show deference
          to the Gardners and never give the
          appearance that they were, in fact,
          colleagues in the trenches.

QUICK CUT: Allison Davis tips his hat and steps aside to
allow Burleigh to pass as he and a RED-HAIRED MAN cross paths
ON THE STREET. Burleigh doesn't acknowledge him as he passes.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Davis was the leader of the team,
          but they couldn't let the locals
          know that. They had to keep to
          their own caste performance.
          Everyone had to play the part
          expected of them. It was imperative
          that the white man appear to be the
          leader. That the Black people be
          subservient to the whites. It was
          perilous to step out of character.

QUICK CUT: Red Hair looks back at Allison, scornfully.

                    RED-HAIRED
          That monkey's too big for his
          britches. Might have to train him.

Burleigh nods and plays along.

QUICK CUT: A thicket of trees obscure TWO CARS parking side
by side. The passenger and back doors of one side are open
facing the same profile of the opposite car. The four discuss
and share information as if they are in a true office.

                    MARY
          I don't see how we stay much
          longer. Our neighbor practically
          invited us to a lynching yesterday.
          We can't skirt that kind of thing
          too many more times without it
          becoming obvious we're avoiding.

                    BURLEIGH
          And Allison, there've been some
          unkind things said about you. I
          can't be sure some of these folks
          don't get a mind to do something.
                                                        90.


                    ELIZABETH
              (rattled)
          We're seeing similar suspicion. We
          should consider...

                     ALLISON
              (rallying)
          Not yet. If they're inviting you
          places and talking freely around
          you, you're getting into the white
          inner circle of this town and that
          is what we need to observe. Liz and
          I made our way into the Black inner
          circle, day by day, hard fought.
          This is the core of our research.
              (beat)
          You can't smash the system, if you
          don't understand how it works.
              (beat)
          We show people how it works. That's
          our job. Right here. We're close.

They listen and agree.

QUICK CUT: The Gardners on the porch of their quaint home in
the white side of town, reading, researching, debating,
typing. The street is alive with warmth and family bonds.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          The two couples kept on the move.
          Constantly changing clandestine
          locations for safety. They couldn't
          go to each other's homes. Mixing of
          races was not allowed publicly, in
          any form except subservience.

Kids ride shiny bikes with tassels as a POLICE CRUISER rolls
by. The children bicycle after the car, waving admiringly.

QUICK CUT: The Davises on the porch of a ramshackled house in
the Black part of town, reading, researching, debating,
typing. The community is alive with warmth and family bonds.

                    ELIZABETH
          The most striking tenant of their
          embrace of supremacy is deference.
          That has to be the core of the
          chapter, don't you think?
                                                        91.


                    ALLISON
          Maybe you're right. Deference goes
          beyond mere observance of certain
          formalities - we call them "sir"
          and they call us "boy" and "gal."
          It extends to what the Negro is
          allowed to express and how.

                    ELIZABETH
          Exactly. Never contradicting
          whites. Never correcting them.
          Always agreeing with them.

                    ALLISON
          Yes, Lizzy. Good. Not only having
          to observe rules of deferential
          speech and conduct, but also...
              (writing, thinking)
          ... Negroes better believe them
          wholeheartedly and act accordingly.
          No reservations.

                    ELIZABETH
          It's not enough to conform
          reluctantly.

                    ALLISON
          Right. Conform willingly.
          Cheerfully even. Or else.

Then, they notice Essie, the maid Elizabeth saw in the store.
She observes them a few yards away with raised eyebrows.

                    ESSIE
          Evenin'. Ya'll eat? Been out he'
          readin' and writin' fah hours.
          Ya'll ain't wont nothin'? Greens
          wit' fatback. Gone git cold.

They immediately CODE SWITCH, changing their language and
intonation from academic exploration to colloquial greeting.

                    ALLISON
          Hey nah! Ain't gotta tell me twice!

                    ELIZABETH
          We comin'. We ready. Thank ya.

They put away their books and follow their neighbor inside
while exchanging looks to each other. Did she hear them?

Kids play with homemade baseball sticks as a POLICE CRUISER
slowly rolls by. The kids stop and watch - on guard.
                                                        92.


Allison nods and casts his eyes down deferentially as the
SHERIFF eyes him with a sneer of disdain. Then drives on.

                    ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
          We barely made it out of Germany,
          Allison. Let's not wait for the
          same thing to happen here.

CLOSE on Allison. It might be time to go.


INT. RUBY'S HOUSE - DAY

It's RAINING. WORKMEN carry plaster and hoses to the back of
the house, leaving muddy footprints on the hardwood floors.

Isabel clocks it, but goes back to reading a book. It's the
same one that she took off of her shelf long ago when she
attempted to write about Trayvon Martin. The same one she
held dearly at the gala event in the stacks alone.

Now, for the first time, we see that the back cover shows THE
PORTRAIT OF TWO COUPLES: the Davises and The Gardners.


INT. EAST COAST PORTRAIT STUDIO - DAY

Both couples pose for a picture being taken in a portrait
studio. They fuss over their ties and smooth their hair,
patting their skirts, raising their posture.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          In 1941, the Davis and Gardner team
          emerged with perhaps the most
          comprehensive study, to this day,
          of the American caste system. Their
          ethnographic fieldwork was a choice
          to risk their lives to document the
          structure of human division. The
          Davises and The Gardners remained
          lifelong friends.

They look quite serious. Then, at the photographer's urging,
they all smile as the FLASH bursts.


EXT. RUBY'S HOUSE - ANOTHER DAY

The Arborist from before is working in the yard as Isabel
writes on her laptop on the porch. A POSTAL WORKER approaches
with mail and a warm greeting.
                                                           93.


                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Their book "Deep South" is a
          quietly revolutionary, landmark
          experiment in interracial
          scholarship. A brilliant,
          compassionate, rigorous testimony
          of a long ago era.

Isabel puts down the computer to receive the package.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          With each passing year, it becomes
          an even more valuable gift to those
          who seek to understand the
          divisions of caste.

She opens it with care. Then, removes a sheet of stamps.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Dr. Allison Davis became the first
          Black tenured professor at a major
          white American university. His work
          would go on to inspire Dr. Martin
          Luther King, Jr, Stokely Carmichael
          and countless others who want to
          understand the origin of our
          discontent.

CLOSE on the face of the stamp. An older Allison Davis gazes
back, proudly enshrined on the postage. Silver-haired. Regal.


INT. NEW YORK PUBLISHING OFFICE - DAY

A swanky Manhattan office with chic decor. Isabel is escorted
past the open work spaces into the office of her editor,
Kate, who greets her with genuine warmth.

                                                  CUT TO:

Both women sit in Swedish designer chairs with their laptops.

                    KATE
          The pillars are working. They give
          it shape. How many do you think
          there'll be?

                    ISABEL
          Six or seven, I think. I'm close to
          finalizing it.

                    KATE
          You're going to make this deadline.
                                                94.


                    ISABEL
          I am going to make this deadline.

                    KATE
          This self-imposed deadline.

                    ISABEL
          There's no one to push me anymore.
          I have to push myself.

This stops Kate, finally understanding.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
              (pivoting)
          Pillar five. Heritability.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          This one is fascinating. Horrifying
          and fascinating.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          In India, generally one's social
          rank is passed down by the father.
          What he is, you are. In America
          though, colonial Virginia, children
          inherited the caste of their mother
          by law.

                    KATE
          Right. But why?

                    ISABEL
              (a twinkle in her eye)
          Caste.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          White men put it into a law so they
          could claim the children that came
          from their rapes of Black women as
          property.

                    KATE
              (dawning on her)
          The more Black women they
          impregnated, the richer they got.

                    ISABEL
          They protected their "property" and
          their profit. But they also
          protected so-called "whiteness."
          Which leads to the key pillar. One
          that's central to all of this.
                    (MORE)
                                                        95.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          The destruction of relationship
          between people of different kinds.
          Often through violence.


INT. MONTGOMERY AIRPORT - DAY

Isabel walks through the small terminal, passing historical
exhibits that highlight the city's civil rights movement. Dr.
King, Rosa Parks, the Montgomery bus boycott.


INT/EXT. THE LEGACY MUSEUM - DAY

She enters the dazzling museum dedicated to tracing American
history from enslavement to mass incarceration. The exhibits
are dynamic and emotional. She browses, notebook in use.

Isabel comes to a double height wall with laws written on
squared panels to illustrate the injustice of the American
legal system. One reads: "Marriage or cohabitation with
knowledge of the difference in race between a person of
Caucasian or white race and a person of the colored or negro
race shall result in imprisonment, with or without hard
labor, for not more than five years." The law is attributed
to the Louisiana Criminal Code.

There are others outlining harsh laws to regulate matters of
the heart. We JUMPCUT through the policies of several states.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          It was the caste system - through
          the practice of endogamy which
          essentially regulated people's
          romantic choices over the course of
          centuries -- that created and
          reinforced the idea of "races," by
          permitting only those with similar
          physical traits to legally mate.
          Endogamy laws written and enforced
          by white men designed the
          population of the United States.
          This social engineering maintained
          the superficial differences that
          the American hierarchy is based on.
          The idea of your "race" was the
          result of who was officially
          allowed to procreate with whom.
          And, if you were not a white man,
          and you violated that...
                                                         96.


EXT. NATIONAL MEMORIAL FOR PEACE AND JUSTICE - DAY

Isabel stands amidst a majestic memorial which outlines the
crimes for which Black people were lynched.

Arthur St. Clair, a minister, was lynched in Hernando County,
Florida, in 1877 for performing the wedding of a black man
and white woman.

David Walker, his wife, and their four children were lynched
in Hickman, Kentucky, in 1908 after Mr. Walker was accused of
using inappropriate language with a white woman.

Lacy Mitchell was lynched in Thomasville, Georgia, in 1930
for testifying against a white man accused of raping a black
woman.

Isabel walks within a pavilion of more than 800 6-foot-tall
steel beams suspended from above. Each is inscribed with the
name of a state and a county where an African-American was
lynched. As she walks through, the beams hang high and
higher, conjuring the sensational of a body being strung up,
rising from the ground by rope.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          An unknowable number of lives were
          lost due to endogamy, the defining
          pillar of caste. It triggered the
          most publicized cases of lynchings
          in America. A protocol strictly
          enforced against Black men and
          white women. While white men kept
          full and flagrant access to Black
          women, whatever their age or
          marital status. In this way, the
          dominant gender of the dominant
          caste, in addition to controlling
          the livelihood and lives of
          everyone "beneath" them, also
          eliminated the competition for its
          own women and controlled who had
          access to whom for romantic
          relationships and reproduction.

Isabel touches Brett's watch as she stands beneath the
ascending steel structures.


INT. RUBY'S HOUSE - ANOTHER DAY

Books and files are scattered across the dining room table. A
white board with various pillars of caste listed, crossed
through and circled, commands the middle of the living room.
Isabel is typing intensely when there is a KNOCK at the door.
                                                        97.


She opens it to find a PLUMBER in uniform. A plumber with a
Trump hat on. He's surprised to see her. She's shocked by the
hat. But of course, she covers.


INT. RUBY'S BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

They descend the stairs to the basement. She leads.

They both step into about two inches of water. She goes to
move things and make room for him to inspect the problem. Her
mother's portable wheelchair. A lampshade. Stacks of her
father's engineering books. An old bucket.

                    ISABEL
              (to the plumber)
          There had been three or four inches
          of water, but the HVAC guy helped
          get the sump pump restarted to
          drain most of the water out.
              (off his silence)
          This has never happened before.

She begins sweeping water as he looks down at the wet floor.

                    ISABEL (CONT'D)
          I hardly ever come into the
          basement. We had that drought, so I
          didn't think about water in the
          basement. My husband was the one
          who came down here. He was the one
          who checked the filter on the
          furnace, checked the fuse box. He
          died last year.

He just nods with disinterest, then digs into his tool bag.

                    PLUMBER
          Uh-huh.

He steps over a few boxes, knocking a wreath to the wet floor
and not bothering to pick it up. Isabel observes this with
frustration, but keeps sweeping - as is her way.

He finally points to the sink.

                    PLUMBER (CONT'D)
          That's where the water's coming in.

                    ISABEL
              (with subtle disagreement)
          But the sink's never overflowed
          before. Maybe there's a drain
          somewhere. Maybe it's clogged.
                                                        98.


She begins to move boxes, feeling alone and upset. At his
inaction. At his lack of empathy. At his hat. At everything.

                    PLUMBER
          Probably the pump needs clearing
          out. I'll write an estimate.

Why was he not looking to fix it? Wasn't that what he was
here for? She's not upset. She's sad. As if humanity has
failed her. We watch her watching him write an estimate. And
then, almost involuntarily...

                    ISABEL
          My mother just died a few months
          ago. Is your mother still alive?

                    PLUMBER
              (caught off-guard)
          No, no, she's not. Died in 1991.
          Fifty-two years old.

                    ISABEL
          Goodness. That's not old at all.

                    PLUMBER
              (with regret)
          Sure ain't. I'm about that age now.
          Father's still alive though. He's
          seventy-eight.

                    ISABEL
          You're lucky to still have him.

                    PLUMBER
          Well, he's mean as they come.

She takes this in, imagining what it's meant in his life.

                    ISABEL
          You miss them when they're gone no
          matter what they were like.

                     PLUMBER
              (nods)
          Got an aunt in her eighties who
          still smokes and'll ask for a swig
          of beer if you got a can nearby. On
          my daddy's side.

                    ISABEL
          Your father's side is long-lived.
                                                        99.


                    PLUMBER
              (a small smile to himself)
          Yeah. I guess they are.

He goes to the pump, bends down and starts to clear it out.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          It is harder to dehumanize a single
          person standing in front of you.
          Harder to dehumanize an individual
          you've gotten the chance to know.

He takes off his Trump hat to get a better look.

                    PLUMBER
          If you get one end, we can move
          this and see if there's a drain.

Together, they move the table and find the drain. He trains
his flashlight along the floor, inspecting the perimeter,
along the base of the furnace, every corner up and down.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Which is why people and groups who
          seek power and division don't
          bother with dehumanizing an
          individual. Better to attach a
          stigma, a taint of pollution, to an
          entire group. Dehumanize the group
          and you've successfully dehumanized
          every individual person within it.

                    PLUMBER
          I found it. Found the problem.

                    ISABEL
          What was it?

                    PLUMBER
          Water heater's gone bad.


EXT. RUBY'S PORCH - A SHORT TIME LATER

The plumber completes her receipt on his clipboard and hands
it to her. His hat is in his hand. Not on his head. He nods,
then heads to his pickup.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Nazi Germany, the United States and
          India all reduced Jews, African-
          Americans and Dalits to an
          undifferentiated mass of nameless,
          faceless scapegoats.
                                                        100.


She's relieved he's gone and that she got what she needed. No
sentimentality. Just stark recognition of what just occurred.


INT. RUBY'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

She immediately goes to the whiteboard and writes furiously,
sparked by a new idea. She writes: Pillar #7: Dehumanization.

QUICK CUTS: DALIT WOMEN knee deep in HUMAN EXCREMENT,
cleaning a large latrine BY HAND.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Millennia ago, Dalits were called
          the Untouchables of India and
          forced into the degrading work of
          manual scavenging, the practice of
          cleaning excrement from toilets and
          open drains by hand in exchange for
          leftover food. This persists to
          this day. To refuse is to invite
          severe punishment or death.

QUICK CUTS: Close of the women loading the waste with their
hands into cane baskets and carrying it on their heads for
disposal. This isn't feudal India. It is now. A CAR passes.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Indian activists explain that the
          manual scavenger is not a form of
          employment, but an injustice akin
          to slavery. It is one of the most
          prominent forms of discrimination
          against Dalits, and it is central
          to the violation of their human
          rights. To their dehumanization.

QUICK CUTS: Black people stacked horizontally, naked, gasping
for air, chained together, starving.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          More than sixty million human
          beings were tortured to death and
          thrown overboard on slave ships
          during the Middle Passage. Sixty
          million. Sixty. Million. Souls. The
          trade and sale of African people
          demolished communities, obliterated
          families and tore flesh from
          spirit.
                    (MORE)
                                                       101.

                    ISABEL (V.O.) (CONT'D)
          Through violent storms at sea,
          starvation, mutilation and rape,
          Black people were stacked and
          squeezed into the hulls of ships to
          be sold into further unfathomable
          terror.

QUICK CUTS: Closer now. Among them, some are dead. A horror.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Their bodies did not belong to
          them, but to the dominating caste
          to do with however it wished.

QUICK CUTS: Close on their faces now. An unspeakable anguish.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          A piece of property to be possessed
          with complete disregard for human
          dignity. To be worked until dead.
          No longer daughter of a fisherman
          or a nephew of the midwife. Now, a
          soul-less animal. Not human.

QUICK CUTS: Jewish people being stripped, their heads shaved.
Then they are lined up, all in the same striped uniforms.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Upon their arrival at the
          concentration camps, Jews were
          stripped of the clothing of their
          former lives. Their heads were
          shaved, distinguishing features,
          like sideburns or red hair, were
          deleted from them. They were no
          longer personalities to engage
          with. They became a single mass,
          purposely easier for SS officers to
          distance themselves from. 

QUICK CUTS: Close on their faces now.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Loving mothers, headstrong nephews,
          dedicated bakers and watchmakers
          all merged into a single mass of
          undifferentiated bodies. No longer
          seen as humans deserving empathy,
          but as objects over whom control
          could be exerted. They were no
          longer people, they were numbers.
          Dehumanized.
                                                          102.


CLOSE on one face at the camp in particular. It is Irma.
August's love. Once vibrant and full of life. Now, with her
hair gone. Her smile gone. The light in her eyes gone.


INT. VARIOUS PLACES - DAY

We see FLASHES of IMAGES toppling onto one another, the
culmination of Isabel's research now cascading into words
that will be the foundation of her book.

- Isabel reads passages in the office to Kate.

- Isabel researches in a LIBRARY.

- She writes "Terror and Cruelty" on the whiteboard at home.

- QUICK CUTS of a rope roughly looped around the neck of the
battered, BARELY CONSCIOUS BLACK MAN, circa 1933. A LITTLE
WHITE GIRL points in awe from her father's shoulders. We
recognize him as the Red Haired Man from Natchez. They are
among dozens of WHITE ONLOOKERS who revel in the carnival-
like atmosphere of murder.

- QUICK CUTS of a WHITE MAN IN A SUIT, circa 1933, grabbing
his mail after a long day. He rifles through envelopes to
find a POSTCARD. The front has a PHOTOGRAPH of the lynching.
He flips it over to read the inscription on the back: "Token
of a great day. This is the barbecue that we had."

- Isabel writes at a patio table in front of the bakery when
Amari, the editor who wanted her to write an essay, happens
by. They greet each other warmly. He sits and they chat.

- She writes the words: "Inherent Superiority vs. Inherent
Inferiority" on the whiteboard.

- We see ASHES falling from the sky during the second world
war. Germans go about their daily lives, trying to normalize
the human remains that blanket their cars and bikes.

- Isabel sits on her mother's bed. We've seen her here
before. Packing begrudgingly. This time, she works with
purpose. She opens the bottom drawer of Ruby's dresser and
removes the whole thing, bringing it to the bed. She rummages
through and finds loose newspaper clippings - of sports
events, wedding announcements and local stories. One catches
her eye. The headline: "Little League Baseball Team Rewarded
With Swim Day At Local Pool." CLOSE on Isabel, remembering
her mom's story in the clouds.

- In her home, she writes "Purity vs. Pollution" on the
whiteboard. Then the name "Al Bright."
                                                         103.


EXT. LITTLE LEAGUE GAME - YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO - 1951

A chubby-cheeked sweetheart of an 8-year-old boy, AL BRIGHT,
is on second base of a Little League baseball field. He
watches wide-eyed as his white teammate slams the bat,
sending the ball far into the outfield.

As the opposing side scrambles to recover, Al yelps in
excitement and takes off to the next plate. His teammates,
all white except for Al, do the same. Four boys hurdle over
home base one after the other in ECSTATIC TRIUMPH as the kids
in the dugout GO BANANAS. Al is euphoric as are his mother
and father in the stands, and all the parents and spectators.
The team starts to chant.

                      TEAM MEMBERS
            City! Champs! City! Champs!


INT. SCHOOL BUS - NEXT DAY

Al is   on the school bus with his teammates. All the boys are
happy   and eagerly anticipating their destination. As the bus
pulls   in front of the municipal pool, the COACH, a sturdy
white   man in a baseball cap, makes a few announcements.

                      COACH
                (stern)
            Boys. I want you to behave
            yourselves in here.

The boys nod solemnly. No intention of getting out of line.

                      COACH (CONT'D)
            But the biggest thing I want...
                (switches to joyful)
            I want you to enjoy! You earned it!

The boys hoop and holler.

                      COACH (CONT'D)
            We'll have the championship picnic
            on the lawn right after we swim a
            little. How's that sound?!

Sounds perfect! The champs are here!


EXT. MUNICIPAL PARK - PRESENT DAY

Isabel walks into the park to meet an ELDERLY WHITE MAN. She
shakes his hand as he rises from the picnic table to shake
hers. He begins to tell a story as she records and writes.
                                                       104.


EXT. MUNICIPAL PARK - 1951

The boys eagerly stream through the gates of the park with
coaches and some parents. Al happily enters with his friends
when a WHITE PARK WORKER approaches.

                      WHITE PARK WORKER
          Hey, boy.

All the boys turn, but they know immediately which one is
being spoken to. And Al does too. The tone made it clear.

Al steps forward tentatively.

                      AL BRIGHT
          Yessir?

                    PARK WORKER
          You can't be in here right now. You
          know better.

Al is confused. He looks at his teammates and then to the
COACH who is approaching the WHITE PARK WORKER.

                    COACH
          Everything okay here?

                    PARK WORKER
          This boy with your team?

                    COACH
          Yes. He's one of my players.

The Park Worker steps away from the boys with the Coach. We
stay with Al's little face as he watches, wondering what's
happening. His friends do too. The boys watch an animated
conversation between the men. Wisps of the conversation: "The
maintenance crew won't have time to disinfect it."

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          The coach hadn't calculated for Al
          in that setting as the only Black
          player. He tried to bargain.

We see a couple of WHITE MALE PARENTS approach the huddle
with the coach. "Most of these boys' parents are at work. His
too. He has to stay with us."

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          They tried to persuade the pool
          officials to let Al in, but the
          park people weren't budging.
                    (MORE)
                                                       105.

                    ISABEL (V.O.) (CONT'D)
          They agreed to one thing to lessen
          the coach's embarrassment and not
          spoil the day for the others.

                                                  CUT TO:

A pool full of energetic boys DIVING AND SPLASHING. Picnic
tables overflow with hot dogs, chips, punch and cookies.

And outside the CHAIN LINK FENCE in a small sliver of grass
near the cement sidewalk, Al sits alone on a blanket.

Watching from afar, he's not crying. He's not emotional.
Sadly, he's watching as if its a scene on a television show
or a movie. A spectator.

His big brown eyes track friends from picnic table to diving
board. His little hands holding a hot dog that's been brought
to him. He takes a small bite. Then looks back to the boys.
Chewing slowly. Observing the fun. Even smiling at something
he sees here or there.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          From time to time, one or another
          of the players or adults came out
          and sat with him before returning
          to join the others.

QUICK CUTS: A WHITE MOTHER bringing a paper bowl of potato
salad. TWO TEAMMATES wandering over to talk with him through
the fence. Al rises to talk with them, then sits down again
when they head back.

Coaches and parents in a group with park officials again.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          It took an hour or so to finally
          convince the lifeguards that they
          should at least allow Al into the
          pool for just a few minutes. The
          supervisor agreed to let him in,
          but only...

Boys and others scurry out of the pool.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          ...if everyone - teammates,
          parents, all the white people in
          the pool - got out of the water.
          And only if Al followed the rules
          they set for him.
                                                        106.


EXT. POOL - MOMENTS LATER

Al walks past his friends and classmates led by a LIFEGUARD
who places a SMALL BRIGHT YELLOW RUBBER RAFT in the pool and
waits for him to climb in. He struggles to do it alone, with
no one touching or helping him and with the mandate that...

                    LIFEGUARD
          You cannot touch that water, boy.
          Hear me?

                    AL BRIGHT
              (quietly)
          Yessir.

Once Al is in, the Lifeguard gets into the pool and begins to
PUSH THE RAFT with Al on top for a single turn around the
pool.

Dozens of teammates, coaches and parents watch from the side.
Some satisfied, some ashamed, all letting it happen.

                    LIFEGUARD
              (to Al)
          Don't touch that water. Keep your
          balance.

Al holds his small body completely still, except for his eyes
which dart away from his teammates and onto the untouchable
water lapping against the shiny white tiles of the pool.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          After the few minutes that it took
          to complete the lap, Al was taken
          back to his assigned spot on the
          other side of the fence.


EXT. MUNICIPAL PARK - MOMENTS LATER

The little boy lays on his blanket alone again. This time,
not watching the poolside activity. But playing with a blade
of grass in his beautiful, brown hands.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          The lifeguard had managed to keep
          the water pure, untainted by Black
          skin, for all the white patrons.

PRESENT DAY ISABEL approaches Al. He looks up at her.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Al Bright went on to become an
          artist and educator.
                    (MORE)
                                                       107.

                    ISABEL (V.O.) (CONT'D)
          He was the first full-time Black
          faculty member at his alma mater,
          Youngstown State University.

She reclines next to him on the grass, side by side. When he
turns his head to her, we see that he's been crying. A tear
falls down his cheek.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          I missed talking to him for the
          book by a matter of months. He
          passed away at age 82. But a part
          of him died that afternoon in 1951.
          I'm told he was never the same.

She looks at him with tears in her eyes too. And for the
first time, she allows them to fall freely. No restraint.

                    ISABEL
              (to Al)
          You're gonna be okay. All is well.

She smiles at him. And he smiles back.

She reaches to wipe his tears. Then, her own.

END MONTAGE


INT. ISABEL'S BEDROOM - DAWN

The first rays of the day stream into her bedroom. Isabel
sits on the floor at the foot of her bed.

She's clearly been up all night, but she's in the zone. Her
energy is serene and powerful.

She strokes Sophie's fur, deep in thought. Deep in gratitude.
Then, takes a deep breath and types with great satisfaction.

Then, closes her laptop, quietly triumphant.


EXT. ISABEL'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

She walks onto the lawn, every inch covered by leaves. And
with a rake in hand, begins to move them into tidy piles.


INT/EXT. RUBY'S HOUSE - DAY

A completely refurbished house. The home is empty, clear and
pristine. The doorknobs are polished. The paint is fresh and
new. Isabel takes stock as she says goodbye.
                                                       108.


She moves down the hallway, taking a last look in each room.

                    ISABEL
          When you live in an old house, you
          may not want to go into the
          basement after a storm to see what
          the rains have brought. But, choose
          not to look at your own peril.

She enters the living room and takes stock.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          We're all like homeowners who've
          inherited a house on a piece of
          land that's beautiful on the
          outside, but the soil is unstable.
          People say, `I had nothing to do
          with how this all started. I never
          owned slaves. I didn't mistreat
          Untouchables. I didn't gas Jews.'
          And, yes. Not one of us was around
          when this house was built. But here
          we are, the current occupants of a
          property with stress cracks built
          into the foundation and a roof that
          must be replaced.

Still and satisfied, she relishes the achievement.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          We are the heirs to whatever is
          right or wrong with it. We didn't
          erect the uneven pillars, but they
          are ours to deal with now. The
          cracks won't fix themselves. Any
          more deterioration is on our watch.

She closes the curtains and makes her way to the door, then
looks back at the home one last time.


EXT. RUBY'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

WIDE on the house from the street as Isabel closes the door.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Caste is not hatred. It is the worn
          grooves of routine and expectation.
          Patterns of a social order that
          have been in place so long it looks
          natural - when it isn't.
                                                       109.


She starts down the path to the curb. As she walks away from
the home, there are PEOPLE ON THE LAWN. She doesn't see them,
but they see her.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Caste is everywhere, yet invisible.
          No one avoids exposure to its
          message. And the message is simple:
          one kind of person is more
          deserving of freedom than another
          kind.

On the lawn, she passes Trayvon Martin, the teenager who
bought Skittles, who watches her calmly in his black hoodie.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Freedom to go wherever you want to
          go.

She passes August and Irma, the lovely couple from Germany.

                    ISABEL
          Freedom to love whoever you want to
          love.

She passes Allison and Elizabeth, the couple who traveled
from Berlin to Natchez.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Freedom to express yourself however
          you want to express yourself.

And then she passes Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar, who tips his hat.

                    ISABEL (V.O.)
          Freedom to resist and fight for
          your human right to do so.

Isabel passes the camera to reveal Ruby, Marion and Brett on
the front porch. They watch her go with pride.


INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Isabel speaks with confidence and candor to a standing room
only crowd. She speaks without notecards.

The cover of her new book CASTE is projected behind her.

                    ISABEL
          The tragedy of caste is that we are
          judged on the very things we cannot
          change: the signposts on our body
          of gender and ancestry.
                    (MORE)
                                                        110.

                       ISABEL (CONT'D)
            Superficial differences that have
            nothing to do with who we are
            inside.
                (beat)
            The goal of this work has not been
            to resolve all of the problems of a
            millennia old phenomenon. But to
            bear witness to it's presence in
            our everyday lives and to shine
            light on its history - despite
            those who try to deny it and
            withhold it. Despite those try to
            convince us that we don't need to
            know. We need to know.
                (beat)
            We don't escape trauma by ignoring
            it. We escape trauma by confronting
            it.
                (beat)
            You can be born to the dominant
            caste, but choose not to dominate.
            You can be born to a subordinated
            caste and choose to take this
            information -- and fight.
                (beat)
            My mother once told me: "All you
            control is you." So, now that you
            know what caste is and how it
            works, how will you be brave?
                (beat)
            I'll leave you with that. And I
            thank you very much for having me.

                                             FADE TO BLACK.

END CARD:

CASTE, written by Isabel Wilkerson, debuted at Number Two on
the New York Times Best Seller List in August 2020, two and a
half months after the murder of George Floyd.

The critically-acclaimed book remained among the top in the
nation for 57 weeks, rising to number one on the week of
Donald Trump's defeat in the U.S. Presidential Election.

Wilkerson book's dedication reads:

"To the memory of Brett who defied caste and to the memory of
my mother, father and family who survived it."




Origin
Writers :   Ava DuVernay
Genres :   Drama
User Comments








