




                      THE PERSIAN VERSION



                           Written by

                        Maryam Keshavarz





A SERIES OF EXTREME CLOSE-UPS:

--A HAND pushes a needle through psychedelic aqua material.

1A-A MAGAZINE cutout: a young woman on the seashore wearing
an ultra-conservative Burkini: everything covered save the
eyes.

1B-A single hazel green EYE: heavily mascara'd fake
eyelashes, heavy eyeliner, and eyeshadow that matches the
fabric.

1C-The garment is fastened. Two hazel eyes alone are visible
under the aqua burka. A hand grabs a surfboard.


EXT. STREET - EVENING

LEILA (29, mischievous, Iranian-American) walks through the
streets of New York dressed in an outlandish Halloween
costume: top half aqua burka, bottom half string bikini,
matching shoes, and surfboard.


EXT. BRIDGE - EVENING

She continues across the bridge.


INT. HEDWIG'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The door is thrown open by a PARTYGOER in a chicken costume.
Leila takes a breath and enters. Will the costume be a
disaster?

Leila's shyness (and lingering depression) dissolve as she
becomes the belle of the ball.

PARTYGOERS in various costumes lavish her with praise. Slow-
mo as she soaks in all the attention. She is the most popular
girl at the party.

A NUN makes an announcement:

                     NUN
          And the winner of this year's Best
          Halloween Costume is...Miss
          Burkatini!

Everyone cheers and Leila accepts the Best Costume trophy.
Just then, she locks eyes with a partygoer in HEDWIG drag.

                       LEILA
          Nice legs.
                                                            2.


                    HEDWIG
          Nice cultural commentary.

Miss Burkatini flirting with Hedwig - its a sight to behold.

                                              SMASH CUT TO:


INT. HEDWIG'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Hedwig and Miss Burkatini, mostly out of her costume with
just the basic bikini on, are making out.

                    LEILA
          Oh my god, I love drag queens.

                    HEDWIG
          Oh no, I'm an actor, I'm playing
          Hedwig at the Belasco. I was
          supposed to come in this
          Frankenstein thing but it --

                    LEILA
          Shhh, okay? You're so beautiful
          until you talk.

Hedwig bites Leila's finger.

                    LEILA (CONT'D)
          Ow! Why would you do that?

                    HEDWIG
          I'm so sorry, I thought that was
          sexy.

They keep making out. He tries to take off her bikini top.

                    LEILA
          Ow, ow! You're scratching me with
          your nails.

                    HEDWIG
          Sorry.

Leila reaches for his bra.

                    LEILA
          Here, let me show you.

She unhooks it with ease.

                    HEDWIG
              (laughs)
          You did that with one hand?
                                                           3.


                    LEILA
          Yeah, I've had a lot of practice.

He kisses her neck.

                    LEILA (CONT'D)
              (to camera)
          Obviously I've have some issues
          with "culture". But can you blame
          me? I come from two countries who
          used to be madly in love with each
          other.

She shoves Hedwig down onto the bed.

                                                  CUT TO:


ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE - VARIOUS

--Jimmy Carter shaking hands with the Shah.

--The Queen of Persia with Jackie O: fashionista heaven.

--Americans posing at the gorgeous Shah Cheragh mosque.

--Iranian Revolution street scene.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          And like any great romance, it
          ended in a bitter divorce.

--U.S. Hostages held at the embassy in Tehran.

--ANIMATION: Couple carries a beating heart that drops and
breaks in half.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          As early as I could remember, my
          two cultures didn't just hate each
          other: they were at war.

--Khomeini posters being burned by Americans.

--American flags being burned by Iranians.


INT. HEDWIG'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - MORNING

Hedwig and Leila are in bed now; Hedwig is asleep and Leila
continues to address us directly, while trying to make her
getaway while not waking him up.
                                                         4.


                    LEILA
              (to camera)
          And like a child of divorce, I was
          right in the middle, being pulled
          at from both sides. Being a girl, I
          couldn't be drafted into the
          Iranian military...

--ANIMATION: Indiana Jones-esque plane flies over map from
New York to Shiraz.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          ...so I was the only child of my
          family who could travel between
          these two countries...

-- ANIMATION: A smartly suited American man punches a bearded
Ayatollah Khomeini whose turban transforms into a Mr. T-esque
mohawk.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          ..these two parents who wanted each
          other dead: Iran and America. I
          never fit in anywhere.


INT. HEDWIG'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY - MORNING

Leila gathers her things and examines her disheveled
appearance in the hall mirror.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          Too Iranian in America, too
          American in Iran. Unresolved
          childhood trauma.

--A monkey types on an old fashioned typewriter.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          Clearly this neurosis led me to
          become a writer. Hey, free therapy.


INT. HEDWIG'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - SAME

Hedwig falls off the bed.


INT. HEDWIG'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY - SAME

Leila sneaks out the door.
                                                           5.


                    LEILA (V.O.)
          Writers and neurosis, what's more
          New York than that?

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. BROOKLYN BROWNSTONE - LIVING ROOM - 1982 - DAY

The entire Jamshidpour family - Young Leila (7), her parents,
and eight brothers - pose for a family photo in early 1980s
glory. SHIRIN, Leila's 36-year-old mother, adjusts her
daughter's hair, a drop of femininity in a sea of boys.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          As a kid growing up in Brooklyn, I
          thought we were the all-American
          family. Sears family portrait and
          all. We even had our archetypes.

INSERT: A series of photos is dropped into frame, showing
each of Leila's siblings. In order: SHIVAZ, VAHID, DR. MAJID,
HAMID, EMAN, ROSTAM, ZAL, ABBAS. Leila's photo is labeled
"THE F@%K UP"

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          The disco king, the troublemaker,
          JFK Junior minus the plane crash,
          the braniac-future-Harvard-grad,
          the goth, the hippie, the greaser,
          and the metrosexual. And me, the
          outsider.


INT. BATHROOM - 1982 - DAY

Young Leila (7) teases her hair in the bathroom. Someone
knocks on the door.

                    ALI REZA (O.S.)
          Leila!

                    YOUNG LEILA
          I'm almost done!


INT. HALLWAY - 1982 - SAME

ALI REZA sighs and walks down the hall.


INT. BATHROOM - 1982 - SAME

Young Leila continues fixing her hair.
                                                           6.


                    LEILA (V.O.)
          I was just an all-American girl.
          But the Americans didn't see it
          that way.


INT. PUBLIC SCHOOL - BROOKLYN - CLASSROOM - 1982 - DAY

Young Leila (7) is being bullied by the local Sicilian kids.

                    AMERICAN BULLY
          You smelly terrorist!

The other kids laugh.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          Meanwhile, in Iran ...

                                                     CUT TO:


INT. PUBLIC SCHOOL - IRAN - CLASSROOM - 1982 - DAY

Young Leila sits in another second grade class, full of young
girls wearing hijabs.

                    PERSIAN BULLY
          You smelly imperialist! Go back to
          where you came from.

The other girls laugh.


INT. PUBLIC SCHOOL CLASSROOM - BROOKLYN - 1982 - DAY

Young Leila watches a space shuttle lift off with the rest of
her rapt second grade class.

                    YOUNG LEILA
              (to camera)
          In America, I learned how to put my
          faith in science.

The Challenger EXPLODES. The entire class gasps.


INT. PUBLIC SCHOOL - IRAN - CLASSROOM - 1982 - DAY

The wall is filled with slogans, including "Modesty is beauty
and heavenly."
                                                           7.


                    YOUNG LEILA
              (to camera)
          In Iran, I learned how to put my
          faith in politics.


INT. BROWNSTONE - HALLWAY - 1982 - DAY

A line of Leila's brothers (aged 9-24) wait in line to use
the one bathroom.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          The only way to survive was not to
          put my faith in any of the rules.

Her brothers knock impatiently.

                    YOUNG LEILA (O.S.)
          Hold your horses!

                    YOUNG LEILA (CONT'D)
          Not science, not politics ...

                    YOUNG ROSTAM
          Leila!

The brothers BANG on the bathroom door. We follow to ...


INT. BROWNSTONE - BATHROOM - 1982 - DAY

On the other side of the bathroom door, Leila alone wears her
brother's Batman Underoos.

                    YOUNG LEILA
              (directly to camera)
          ... the only thing I could put my
          faith in was ART!

She holds up a cassette tape: CYNDI LAUPER'S "GIRLS JUST
WANNA HAVE FUN."

Young Leila shoves the tape in her underwear.

She's packing 80s tapes in her Batman Underoos.


INT. BROWNSTONE - HALLWAY - 1982 - DAY

Young Leila opens the door and tries to walk normally past
her brothers.
                                                         8.


                      LEILA (V.O.)
          Growing   up in a home with eight
          boys, I   knew that men had it
          easier.   But still, being the only
          girl in   a family had its benefits.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT - IRAN - 1982 - DAY

Paramilitary TROOPS with machine guns.

Jet-lagged passengers apprehending the culture shock of the
newly-formed Islamic Republic.

Young Leila stands in line for customs with Shirin (35); both
of them have their hair covered. Young Leila tries her best
to walk normally.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          Both for getting in line first and
          for smuggling. So, after the
          Islamic Revolution, the Iranian
          government wanted to distance
          itself from its former lover: the
          US-of-A.

A spray-painted sign reads "Down With America."

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          So, if in the past everything
          American was cool, after the
          revolution, anything Western was
          forbidden and the source of all
          evil.

A LIST of banned items is below, and includes books,
magazines, music recordings, etc.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          So, logically, I became the mule
          for all good from America.

They get to customs. Young Leila looks nervous.

                    CUSTOMS OFFICIAL
              (in Persian)
          Search their bags.

While Shirin opens her bags for the CUSTOMS OFFICIAL, Young
Leila squirms uncomfortably and puts a hand over her crotch.
                                                         9.


                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian, to Leila)
          What the hell is wrong?

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          I smuggled Michael Jackson, Prince,
          and Cyndi Lauper back to the
          homeland. But I had to play it just
          right. If we were detained at
          baggage control, they would do a
          full-body check and I would be
          busted.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. BATHROOM - BROOKLYN - 1982 - FLASHBACK

Back to Young Leila shoving the tape down her pants. A record
SCRATCHES. She looks at the camera with fear.


INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT - IRAN - 1982 - DAY

Their bags are inspected.

                    CUSTOMS OFFICIAL
              (in Persian)
          Take them for a body search.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          Leila! Why are you squirming so
          much?

Young Leila tries to play it cool, but the Customs Official
clocks her.

                    CUSTOMS OFFICIAL
              (in Persian)
          You alright little girl?

                    YOUNG LEILA
              (in Persian)
          I have a really bad rash.

That's TMI for the Customs Official. Shirin eyes her askance.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          What?

Their passports are stamped.
                                                           10.


                    CUSTOMS OFFICIAL
              (in Persian)
          You're free to go.

                       YOUNG LEILA
                 (whispered)
          Yes!

                                               SMASH CUT TO:


INT. FAMILY HOME - SHIRAZ, IRAN - 1982 - DAY

Leila and her mother arrive at the old family home - it's a
sweet homecoming. Hundreds of relatives kissing and laughing.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          I loved those mother-daughter trips
          to Iran.

Young Leila approaches her skeptical cousins.

                    COUSIN
          What did you bring us?

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          We brought a little America to
          Persia.

Young Leila reaches into her pants and pulls out ... THE
SMUGGLED TAPE!

Young Leila holds it aloft, triumphant.

                    YOUNG LEILA
              (in Persian)
          Victory!

She takes the tape, pops it into an old-school boombox, and
"Girls Just Wanna Have Fun" blasts in the house.

The entire family - some in western clothes, some wearing the
traditional head scarf - from Grandma and Great Grandma down
to the youngest kids - dance in choreographed unison.

It's a Bollywood scene set to Cyndi Lauper. We are in a
musical and it's magical.

Leila winks to the camera.

                                                 SMASH CUT:


TITLE CARD : THE PERSIAN VERSION
                                                          11.


EXT. SUBWAY - NEW YORK - NIGHT

The train rattles across the Brooklyn Bridge.


EXT. STREET - BROOKLYN - NIGHT

TITLE: PRESENT DAY(ISH), THE 2000s, BROOKLYN

Leila (20s) walks to the market.


INT. SUPERMARKET - NIGHT

Leila rubs her head, hungover. She collects toiletries as a
KID runs around the aisles.

In the distance she spots: ELENA (37, beautiful Hapa); ZIBA
(45, Iranian-American, a more beautiful and successful
version of Leila).

Leila   ducks into another aisle and looks in the mirror. She
looks   like shit- Gatorade stained sweatshirt and crazy hair.
Not a   time to run into your ex! She lets her hair down and
peeks   around the corner.

Elena clocks her. Leila panics and puts on a furry gorilla
Halloween mask.

                      LEILA (V.O.)
            If you ever wonder what it's like
            to run into your ex when you look
            like shit --

                      LEILA
                (under her breath)
            Oh my god, okay, okay, okay.

A little kid runs into Leila. He opens his mouth in terror at
the gorilla face.

                      LEILA (CONT'D)
            Oh. Shh. Don't scream.

He SCREAMS. HOLD on his face.

                      LEILA (V.O.)
            It feels something like this.

                      EMPLOYEE
            Ma'am, do you know this child?

                      LEILA
            I'm sorry. I don't know him.
                                                        12.


Leila sees Elena approaching the scene and tries to escape.

                    KID
          She put on the gorilla mask.

                     ELENA
          Leila --

                    LEILA
              (under her breath)
          Fuck.

                    ELENA
          Is that you?

Leila is busted.

                    LEILA
          Elena, hi, how are you?

                    ELENA
          Evidently better than you. You've
          got to stop calling me.

                    LEILA
          Maybe I called a few times.

                    ELENA
          I have fifty-four missed calls from
          you.

                    LEILA
          Okay, maybe more than a few times.

                     ELENA
          Leila...

                    LEILA
          I just, I think we should give it
          another shot. I still love you.

                    ELENA
          I don't think you know how to love.
          You have too much baggage.

                     LEILA
          Ouch.

                    ELENA
          One day you're really gonna have to
          learn how to confront your family.
          Especially mommy dearest.
                                                         13.


                    LEILA
          Really, Elena, we're still going
          there?

                    ELENA
          I've moved on. Let me have my life.
          Maybe you can finally come pick up
          the rest of your stuff.

Elena leaves and Leila charges away, ripping off the mask.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          You know the best thing about gay
          marriage? Gay divorce.

                    LEILA
              (under her breath)
          Fuck.


EXT. JAMSHIDPOUR SUBURBAN HOME - NEW JERSEY - NIGHT


TITLE: NEW JERSEY


INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME

A Persian soap plays on the TV. SHIRIN, a spry 55 year old,
pulls a blanket over her mother, MAMANJOON (77), who is
asleep on the sofa.

                    MAMANJOON
              (in Persian)
          Shirin, darling. Make peace with
          your daughter.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          Okay.


INT. SHIRIN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

ALI REZA (63) sleeps in bed.


INSERT: TEXT MESSAGES FROM MAJID AT 8:55PM: PICK UP YOU NEED
TO GET TO THE HOSPITAL NOW!


TEXT: THE HOSPITAL SAID THEY CAN'T GET THROUGH TO YOU.
                                                           14.


TEXT: THE HEART IS HERE!

Shirin returns to the darkened bedroom. She checks her phone
and shakes Ali Reza awake.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          Ali Reza! Ali Reza! The hospital
          called three times. Wake up! It's
          our turn.

                    ALI REZA
              (in Persian)
          What's happened?

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          You're getting a new heart.


INT. CAR - NEW YORK CITY TRAFFIC - NIGHT

Ali Reza and Shirin are trapped in traffic, some sort of
accident ahead blocking the road.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          What if we don't make it?

                    ALI REZA
          Maybe it's not my destiny.

                    SHIRIN
          You're getting a heart.
              (in Persian)
          Crazy traffic!


INT. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL - HALLWAY - NIGHT

SHIVAZ (41, Iranian homeboy who looks like a Dominican
Rapper), ABBAS (29, hipster metro-sexual), and HAMID (35,
coke bottle glasses and a personality to match) jog down the
hallway toward the ER.

They pass a Vietnamese NURSE on the way, which stops Shivaz
dead in his tracks. Hamid and Abbas know their brother too
well.

                    ABBAS
          Where's Leila?

                    SHIVAZ
          You know Leila, God knows.
                                                        15.


They approach the nurses' desk.

                    HAMID
          Uh, hi, our father is going to have
          surgery soon. His name is Ali Reza
          Jamshidpour.


EXT. PENN STATION - NEW YORK - NIGHT

Leila enters through the NJ Transit doors.


EXT. NEW JERSEY TRAIN STATION - NIGHT

Leila gets off the train.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          Crazy, my dad's about to get a
          heart. Imagine carrying someone's
          heart in your body but not really
          knowing anything about them.


EXT. STREET - NEW JERSEY - NIGHT

Leila walks from the train station to her parents house,
passing Indian shops. No one in Jersey walks - she's pissed.
Her phone buzzes.

                     LEILA
          Hi, Mom.

                    SHIRIN (O.S.)
          Leila, I didn't want to call you,
          actually, but we had to leave. We
          are in the car, Mamanjoon is
          waiting for you at home. For some
          reason, she won't stay with anyone
          but you.

                    LEILA
          Okay, well, how's Dad!

                    SHIRIN (O.S.)
              (in Persian, yelling at
               another car)
          Hey moron, it's a car not a donkey!
          Move it!

The call disconnects.
                                                        16.


                     LEILA
          Hello?
              (frustrated)
          Oh my god.


INT. CAR - NIGHT

Back with Shirin and Ali Reza.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          Why is it so busy? Come on, go!
          It's getting late. Yah Imam Zaman!
          We need your help.

A MYSTERY MAN with a helmet covering his face appears on a
motorcycle out of nowhere, parks his bike and opens the
blocked shoulder lane.

                    SHIRIN (CONT'D)
              (in Persian)
          He came!

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          Stop! Wait, wait, wait, wait.

Leila APPEARS in the back seat. Her parents are frozen in
place.

                     LEILA
              (to camera)
          Okay, this is where I have to stop
          the story.

She gets out of the car.


EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Literally the entire scene is in freeze frame. Leila steps
out of the backseat of the car and addresses the camera; she
is the only person not in freeze frame.

                    LEILA
          So, Shi'ah Muslims are really into
          this magic realist stuff. In our
          family there's always someone who
          comes in to save the day. His name
          is...
              (whispered)
          Imam Zaman.

INSERT: Animations of Imam Zaman.
                                                         17.


                    LEILA (CONT'D)
              (normal voice)
          He's this amazing saint. He
          disappeared a few hundred years
          ago, literally disappeared into
          thin air one day. He's a busy guy.
          A true believer says his name and
          he appears in times of need. And he
          can appear in human or animal form.

INSERT: Imam Zaman's different forms.

                    LEILA (CONT'D)
          Oh, you're skeptical, huh? Well I
          sort of am too.

INSERT: A human heart beating.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          This close to getting what she
          wants, of course she pulled a favor
          from the big guy.

INSERT: A frozen Imam Zaman on motorcycle with helmet.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          My mom really believes in this
          stuff. I'm not sure I do. She's old
          world, I'm new world. This is my
          mom and I's relationship in a
          nutshell.

INSERT: A human heart beating.

Leila walks by the frozen motorcycle man/Imam Zaman. She
walks towards the cause of the bottleneck. A huge accident
with smoke billowing and the men in mid-argument - all still
frozen.

                    LEILA
              (addressing the camera)
          Imam Zaman is cute tonight, am I
          right? Well, obviously you can't
          see his face. Well, because you
          just can't. Just trust me on this.

The scene starts moving again. The motorcycle man/Imam Zaman
signals directly to Shirin, to hurry into the lane.


INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

                    SHIRIN
          I told you he'd come.
                                                           18.


EXT. STREETS - CONTINUOUS

As her parents drive past her in the car, Leila turns to
camera.

                    LEILA
              He's doing his magic.


INT. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL - ER PREP - NIGHT

DR. MANZANO (50, mousy woman, 4'10"), and DR. MAJID
JAMSHIDPOUR (36, sophisticated, devastatingly handsome) enter
the room, where Ali Reza lies in bed. Shirin, Shivaz, Hamid,
Abbas, Rostam, and Eman surround him.

                    MAJID
          You're gonna have your very own
          personal Persian fan club after
          this.

Dr. Manzano is overwhelmed by the sheer number of people in
the room.

                    DR. MANZANO
          Just immediate family, please.

                     MAJID
              (trying to set her at
               ease)
          These aren't even all my siblings.
          We're like a litter of cats.

                    DR. MANZANO
          Usually the stronger kittens eat
          the weaker ones.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          Does she think we are cannibals?

                    MAJID
          Maman, Dr. Manzano's the best heart
          surgeon in New York. Dad,
          unfortunately the same can't be
          said for the heart you're getting.
          We're on the B-list. But still, a
          second-rate heart is better than
          the one you have now. You've been
          in and out of hospital for so long.
          This should give you another two
          years, five if we're lucky.
                                                        19.


                    DR. MANZANO
          That's like 35 years in dog years.

                    ALI REZA
              (in Persian)
          Is she saying I'm a dog?

Shivaz, seeing his father's look of fear, breaks into sobs.

                    SHIRIN
          Shivaz, be strong for your father.

                    MAJID
          Dad, with your history, this
          procedure could take eight hours,
          maybe more.

                    DR. MANZANO
          That's a lot for a man of any age.
          I haven't lost many patients, but
          this is still an experimental
          program.

With that, Dr. Manzano leaves.

                    ALI REZA
              (in Persian)
          Find Vahid.

                    HAMID
          We'll find him, Dad.

                    ALI REZA
              (in Persian)
          And when I wake up, I want to see
          all my children. Both Vahid, and
          Leila.


EXT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - NEW JERSEY - NIGHT

Leila approaches the house.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - NIGHT

Mamanjoon sits on the couch watching TV. Dialogue in Persian.

                    LEILA
          Oh, I love Persian soap operas.
          Where's the popcorn?

She sits next to Mamanjoon. They hug - there's a deep and
loving relationship here.
                                                          20.


                    LEILA (CONT'D)
          Mamanjoon. Are you okay? They told
          me you were sick.

                    MAMANJOON
          I feel good when you're here.

                    LEILA
          You're the only one who likes me.
          Shall I take you to the hospital?

                    MAMANJOON
          Your mother doesn't want me there.

                    LEILA
          It's me she doesn't want there. MY
          MUM IS HEARTLESS!

Her Mamanjoon smiles sadly, knowingly.

                    MAMANJOON
          You two can't fight forever. You're
          a writer. If you want to understand
          your mother, write about her.

                     LEILA
              (sighs)
          I'm tired.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - LEILA'S CHILDHOOD BEDROOM - NIGHT

Leila's room is a time capsule of the past. She lays in bed
staring at the ceiling.


INT. LEILA'S CHILDHOOD BEDROOM - MORNING

Leila wakes up in her teenage-years bedroom. Surrounded by
all her high school medals and trophies.

Leila stares at the ceiling, remembering a dark memory.


EXT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - NJ - 8 YEARS AGO - NIGHT

Elena and Leila stand at the door.

                    LEILA
          So, are you ready to meet my
          family?
                                                        21.


                     ELENA
           I love you, okay? This is gonna be
           great.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - LIVING ROOM - 8 YEARS AGO - NIGHT

Elena and Leila enter.

                     SHIRIN
           You're early.

                     LEILA
           Okay, well, happy Thanksgiving,
           Mom. You remember Elena?

Leila kisses her mother on each cheek.

                     SHIRIN
           Happy Thanksgiving.

Elena moves in to kiss Shirin, but she recoils.

                     SHIRIN (CONT'D)
           I actually have a cold. Yes.

Awkward.

Leila cautiously walks across the room to her father. Ali
Reza, sickly, is immersed in a book. She approaches timidly.

                      LEILA
           Hi, Dad.

                     BROTHERS
           Oh, hey Elena!

                     ABBAS
           Come sit with us! You play
           Backgammon?

                     ALI REZA
               (in Persian, to Leila)
           How's life?

                     LEILA
           Is that a trick question?

Abbas and Shivaz sit with Elena on a couch.

                     ABBAS
           Play with us.
                                                           22.


                    ELENA
          I mean, I haven't played since I
          was five.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - KITCHEN - 8 YEARS AGO - NIGHT

Leila joins her mother in the kitchen.

Leila and Shirin work together in silence, preparing a
sumptuous, professional-grade feast.

Leila is beginning to relax: maybe this will be okay.

                    SHIRIN
          You know what today is?

                    LEILA
          Of course. It's the anniversary of
          Grandpa's death.

Shirin almost seems disappointed that she didn't have to
remind Leila.

                    SHIRIN
          I remember --

                    LEILA
          I read Elena some of his poems on
          our way here.

                    SHIRIN
          Well, I think if he saw you today,
          he would be so ashamed of you.

It's like a gut punch, but Leila is defiant.

                    LEILA
          No he wouldn't. He was a poet. He
          wasn't afraid of something just
          because he didn't understand it.

                    SHIRIN
          You barely knew him.

                    LEILA
          I read his books more than you,
          Mom. Of all people, Grandpa would
          want me to live my truth.

                    SHIRIN
              (contemptuously)
          Your truth? Your truth is going to
          kill your father.
                                                        23.


                     LEILA
          Wait, sorry, now we're talking
          about killing Dad? I thought I was
          supposed to be scandalizing Grandpa
          on his anniversary!
              (beat)
          You're such a coward, Mom. Hiding
          behind dad, hiding behind your
          father. But it's not them who don't
          want me to be who I am, it's you!

                    SHIRIN
          You were always like this, ever
          since you were a kid. Stubborn.
          Selfish. And there was not one rule
          you did not want to break.

                    LEILA
          I'm not breaking any rules.

Shirin can't bear it.

                    SHIRIN
          I think you should leave - you and
          Elena. Both of you.

This would be serious in any family, but the Persian
tradition of embracing travelers and the sacred importance of
feeding family makes this a grave insult.

                    LEILA
          You're throwing us out on
          Thanksgiving?

                    SHIRIN
          You want to live outside of the
          rules? Live outside the rules.


INT. LEILA'S CHILDHOOD BEDROOM - PRESENT - DAY

Leila sits up in bed.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          My mom could be so cruel.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - KITCHEN - DAY

Leila sits at her computer, typing a Thanksgiving scene about
her and her mom in script format.
                                                         24.


INT. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL - PATIENT ROOM - DAY

Shirin and her sons sleep in chairs by Ali Reza's bed.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          She just didn't have room in her
          heart for me.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Leila and Mamanjoon watch TV.

INSERT: A flood of texts from Hedwig over the last few weeks.

                    MAMANJOON
              (in Persian)
          How's Duncan?

                    LEILA
              (to camera, in English)
          If you're going to have one last
          boyfriend before becoming gay, you
          can do a lot worse than Duncan.
              (to Grandma, in Persian)
          We're not together anymore. We
          broke up like nine years ago.

                     MAMANJOON
              (in Persian)
          You did good. You don't love him,
          leave him.

                    LEILA
              (in Persian)
          Mom wanted me to marry him.

                    MAMANJOON
              (in Persian)
          Forget it. Have fun with someone
          new. Just don't get carried away.
          But if you must...put it in the
          back door so you stay a virgin. I
          let grandpa do that before we got
          married.

                    LEILA
              (in English)
          Oh my god, okay, Grandma! Stop stop
          stop.
                                                        25.


                    MAMANJOON
              (in Persian)
          You think we just stared across the
          room at each other?

                    LEILA
              (in Persian)
          Can we change the subject?

                     MAMANJOON
               (in Persian)
          Spoiled! You're just like your
          mother. You overreact just like
          her.

                    LEILA
              (in Persian)
          I'm nothing like my mother.

                    MAMANJOON
              (in Persian)
          You'd be surprised.

Mamanjoon's demeanor changes. Something is weighing on her.

                    MAMANJOON (CONT'D)
              (in Persian)
          Do you know why your parents came
          to America?

                    LEILA
              (in Persian)
          Sure. It was 1967...

                                                   CUT TO:


NEWSREEL FOOTAGE OF AMERICAN DOCTORS IN VIETNAM.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
              (in Persian)
          The U.S. had a shortage of doctors
          because of the Vietnam War ...

                                                   CUT TO:


EXT. AIRSTRIP - DAY

Young Ali Reza (27) and Young Shirin (18) head down the
stairs of an airplane, each carrying a CHILD. Fresh off the
plane. The rest of the voiceover is in English, Leila has
heard her family's origin story a million times
                                                        26.


                    LEILA (V.O.)
              (in English)
          So they recruited doctors from Iran
          to work in America's inner cities.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - BED STUY - DAY

Young Ali Reza examines a young BLACK GIRL in 1960s Brooklyn.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          My dad opened his practice in Bed
          Stuy, Brooklyn. They were supposed
          be here 5 years, for my dad to
          complete his internal medicine
          speciality...

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. BROWNSTONE - BROOKLYN - LIVING ROOM - PAST - DAY

The Jamshidpours pose for a family portrait in front of the
same cheesy backdrop thru the years.

Jamshidpour Family portrait 1980s - 9 kids. Young Leila with
big hair, and her 8 brothers in a mix of goth, punk, and
preppy.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          Then 5 years became 15. Then there
          was the Revolution, and then the
          war...

Jamshidpour Family portrait present day - stylish, modern.
Leila is a out of place in the image.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          So we didn't go back.

                    MAMANJOON (V.O.)
              (in Persian)
          No, Leila. That's only one version.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          Mamanjoon, what are the other
          versions of the truth?


EXT. VILLAGE - RURAL IRAN - 1960S - DAY

Young Shirin (14) rides on a donkey through a remote village.
                                                           27.


                    MAMANJOON (V.O.)
              (in Persian)
          Your parents were escaping.
          Escaping a scandal.

                     LEILA (V.O.)
              (in Persian)
          A scandal!

                                               CUT BACK TO:


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - LIVING ROOM - PRESENT - DAY

Mamanjoon falls asleep.

                    LEILA
          Mom never talked about any kind of
          scandal.

Mamanjoon is snoring.

                    LEILA (CONT'D)
          Mamanjoon? Mamanjoon? Mamanjoon?

Leila eyes blink wildly - trying to understand.


INT. BROWNSTONE - BROOKLYN - 1982 - DAY

A Young Leila, blinks wildly as chaos ensues around her,
she's trying hard to concentrate on chopping.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          What could be the scandal?

5:55 pm. Shirin (39 and vibrant), her hair in rollers.

Shirin teaches her only daughter the family recipes and a
deep connection to the homeland. Young Leila chops a mound of
herbs, Shirin corrects her daughter's grip on the knife.

                    SHIRIN
          Even finer, even finer.

                    YOUNG LEILA
              (frustrated)
          Why does it matter?

                    SHIRIN
          Because, if you want to learn how
          to make ghormeh sabzi, you have to
          learn it the right way.
                                                        28.


                    LEILA (V.O.)
          My mother was an enigma. Hard to
          ever understand what she was
          thinking. She held her cards tight
          with everything, except her
          criticism of me.

                    SHIRIN
          Okay, more, keep going. Watch your
          finger, Leila.


TITLE: THE 80S, BROOKLYN

The doorbell RINGS.

Young Leila's brother looks out the window.

                    YOUNG BROTHER
              (in Persian)
          They're here!

                    SHIRIN
          The Americans are on time? Why are
          they on time?? Your dad is not even
          home! Leila! Watch the rice. I have
          to get ready.

The BELL rings again.

Young Leila leads her motley crew of brothers - Young ABBAS
(9), Young ROSTAM (11), Young ZAL (10), SHIVAZ (24), Young
MAJID (19), Young HAMID (15), and Young EMAN (12) in the
panicked immigrant clean-up mission

                    YOUNG LEILA
          Okay, everybody, clean up time!
          Everybody, get dressed now!

Young Leila directs the action sequence: Young Abbas and
Young Rostam shove shit in the closets! Shivaz tilts the sofa
and hides shoes underneath while Young Eman brings dirty
GLASSES to the kitchen, where Young Hamid quickly loads the
dishwasher!

                    YOUNG LEILA (CONT'D)
          Vahid, get your ass off the couch.


INT. BROWNSTONE - BEDROOM - 1982 - CONTINUOUS

Young Leila's eager to help: Shirin frantically removes her
hair rollers, and Young Leila helps her while Shirin tries to
make up her face.
                                                        29.


                    SHIRIN
          Leila, get the shoes.

Young Leila brings over two pairs of heels. Shirin steps into
them.

                    YOUNG LEILA
          Mom, your shoes.

Shirin is wearing a black shoe and a red shoe. Young Leila
tosses her the matching red shoe.

                    YOUNG LEILA (CONT'D)
          Cinderella, catch.

Shirin puts it on and she sails into the main room.

                    SHIRIN
              (in the main room)
          Happy New Year!

Young Leila tries not to let it get to her.

                    YOUNG LEILA
              (to herself)
          You're welcome, Mom.


INT. LIVING ROOM - 1982 - CONTINUOUS

The party is in full swing. Ali Reza and Shirin feel at home
with their people, their culture, their language.

DR. DABIRI and his new American wife, LINDA, who has
convinced him a 6pm invitation means to actually arrive at
six. SOUSSAN SHOJAEI (42) arrives with her husband NADER
SHOJAEI and daughter, ANAHITA (15), who is, in Leila's eyes,
the epitome of cool: short shorts, knee-high socks, and big
80s hair. Leila touches her own two braids and feels uncool.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          My mother was also the master
          multitasker. Cook a huge meal,
          clean the house, and get ready for
          a party effortlessly. Something I
          probably learned from her. And
          helped me become a director.

Soussan Shojaei twirls around.

                    SOUSSAN SHOJAEI
              (to Shirin, in Persian)
          What a gorgeous dress you made me.
                    (MORE)
                                                           30.
                    SOUSSAN SHOJAEI (CONT'D)
          Look. I've gotten so many
          compliments.

She discreetly puts some cash in Shirin's hand.

                    SOUSSAN SHOJAEI (CONT'D)
              (in Persian)
          Just take the money.

Shirin hides it in her bra.

                    SOUSSAN SHOJAEI (CONT'D)
              (in Persian)
          Don't mention it to your husband.
          None of his business how you make
          money.

More GUESTS enter.

                    WOMAN
              (in Persian)
          Happy Persian New Year! I brought
          you a little gift. I hope you like
          it.

Shirin pops the CASSETTE TAPE tape into the boom box. It's
1962's Persian pop superstar: Googoosh.

PARTY TIME! Bellies start moving, hands wave in the air.

Women dancing with women, men with men. Seductive and fun.

Meanwhile, Young Leila jumps between her mom and her mom's
best friends Soussan and Linda. Young Leila expertly dance
Persian style like the adults. Young Leila's the center of
attention of the dancing ladies - Shirin beams with pride.


INT. BROWNSTONE - VARIOUS ROOMS - 1982 - CONTINUOUS

When the song ends, Young Leila joins the kids playing hide-
and-seek while Shirin cleans up as she checks up on her
tribe: Shivaz puts the moves on a girl. Majid and Hamid
battle Anahita on Atari. Eman plays Dungeon & Dragons with
the outsiders.


EXT. BROWNSTONE - HALLWAY - 1982 - CONTINUOUS

Young Leila looks out the window.

By the trash cans, Vahid passes a joint to a PREPPY BURNOUT.
                                                           31.


                      SHIRIN
              (in   Persian)
          Why are   you spying here? Instead of
          helping   me, you're doing this? Go
          back to   the party.

Young Leila is surprised and upset at her mother's rudeness.

                    YOUNG LEILA
          But Vahid was smoking, Mom!

Shirin looks out the window. Vahid and Shirin stare at each
other for a long moment. DENIAL WINS. Shirin decides Vahid
wasn't smoking and heads back inside.


INT. BROWNSTONE - BATHROOM - 1982 - NEXT DAY

Young Leila teases her hair in the mirror.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          It's amazing what a good night's
          sleep can do. Erase all the worries
          of the night before. And erase the
          past.


INT. BROWNSTONE - KITCHEN - 1982 - CONTINUOUS

Shirin preps breakfast for ten people.

Young Majid in preppy attire - grabs a banana and bolts.

The rest of the breakfast rush comes in - 8 kids who all want
different things, and Shirin makes them all.

Young Eman and Young Abbas - late-80s punk coolness -
softboiled/fried eggs.

Young Hamid - coke bottle glasses - french toast.

Shivaz - legal eagle chic - and Young Rostam in a Batman
shirt - pancakes. And Young Zal in his new track suit.

Young Leila enters, hair a monument to big hair everywhere -
waffles.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          What are you wearing?

                       YOUNG LEILA
          I like it.
                                                           32.


                    SHIRIN
              (calling out)
          Vahid!

                    SHIVAZ
              (to Leila)
          Nice hair, sis.

                    YOUNG LEILA
          Thanks.

                    SHIRIN
          Vahid!

Vahid enters, like a truck ran him over. Shirin serves him an
omelet - he rejects it and grabs the Frosted Flakes.

                    SHIRIN (CONT'D)
          Your omelet is ready. You have to
          go to school today.

                    VAHID
              (ignoring his Mom)
          I'm not going to school.

Vahid retreats to his room. Shirin watches him pained.

                    SHIRIN
              (chastising)
          You boys are not helping Vahid
          enough.

                    SHIVAZ
          We can't make him study...

                    YOUNG MAJID
          What do you want us to do, Mom?

                    SHIRIN
          I'll keep you from using the car
          unless you are ready to help him.
              (in Persian)
          How's that?

Shivaz knows to hold his tongue, and eats his breakfast.

Everyone crams the last bites of breakfast and rushes out.
Shirin alone surveys the overwhelming mess.

Ali Reza in the living room armchair is surrounded by
paperwork and is slumped in his chair.

Shirin enters to see her husband...
                                                          33.


                    SHIRIN (CONT'D)
          Ali Reza? Ali Reza? Ali Reza?


INT. HOSPITAL - RECOVERY - 1982 - DAY

Shirin and Shivaz hover over the comatose body of Ali Reza,
who is connected to a raft of machines.

                    SURGEON
          Ali Reza Jamshidpour?

                      SHIRIN
          Yes.

                    SURGEON
          To recover from a triple bypass is
          serious - there's going to have to
          be lifestyle changes.

                    SHIVAZ
          Maybe that way he can stop smoking.

Shivaz vacillates between freaking out and passing out.

                    SHIRIN
          Can he return to work?

                    SURGEON
          The damage to his heart was severe.
          No stress whatsoever. He'll be
          lucky if he can walk around the
          block. But he's alive.

The surgeon leaves.

                    SHIVAZ
          Okay. I'll quit law school and get
          a job.

                    SHIRIN
          You will not. We didn't come to
          America for you to be a hamal. You
          will finish school. I will figure
          it out. I will figure it out.


EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREET - 1982 - NIGHT

Shirin walks overwhelmed, lost in the thought.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          My mother is not one to take "no"
          for an answer.
                    (MORE)
                                                        34.
                    LEILA (V.O.) (CONT'D)
          No one ever gave her the memo that
          Muslim women were supposed to be
          passive good girls. There was never
          a mountain that was insurmountable.


INT. BROWNSTONE - KITCHEN - 1982 - DAY

She sits at the counter with a cup of coffee and looks
through the help wanted ads. She's circled a few prospects.

She makes a series of calls.

                     SHIRIN
              (into phone)
          Hello. I am calling about the
          receptionist position. I -- yes.
          How much typing? And do you need a
          high school diploma?
              (she shakes her head)
          Okay. Thank you for your time.
          Thank you.

In her frustration, she slams the phone down.


EXT. STREET - 1982 - NIGHT

Back to Shirin walking.

                                                 PRE-LAP:

                    BILLING BUREAUCRAT (O.S.)
          The bill is a little steep because
          you don't have health insurance.


INT. HOSPITAL - BILLING - 1982 - DAY

Shirin sits in front of a poker-faced hospital bureaucrat.

                    SHIRIN
          He has worked in this country for
          twenty years as a doctor.


INT. BROWNSTONE - KITCHEN - 1982 - DAY

Shirin dials another number.

                     BILLING BUREAUCRAT (O.S.)
          But you don't have health
          insurance.
                                                35.


INT. HOSPITAL - BILLING - 1982 - DAY

Handing her a bill.

                    BILLING BUREAUCRAT
          I'm afraid you're going to have to
          pay the whole bill.


INT. BROWNSTONE - KITCHEN - 1982 - DAY

Shirin makes another call.

                    SHIRIN
              (into phone)
          Hello, I am calling about the --
          what?

She hangs up.


INT. HOSPITAL - BILLING - 1982 - DAY

Shirin looks at the bill.

                     SHIRIN
          He does not even make this in one
          year. He has to be here for another
          two weeks! He can't work, we have
          nine kids.


EXT. STREET - 1982 - NIGHT

Back with Shirin as she walks.

                    BILLING BUREAUCRAT (O.S.)
          Well, some declare bankruptcy.


INT. HOSPITAL - BILLING - 1982 - DAY

                    SHIRIN
          Bankrupt -- we are Iranian. We
          don't do "bankruptcy."


INT. BROWNSTONE - KITCHEN - 1982 - DAY

Shirin is on the phone again.
                                                        36.


                    SHIRIN
              (into phone)
          Hello, I am calling about the part-
          time office assistant --


INT. HOSPITAL - BILLING - 1982 - DAY

                    BILLING BUREAUCRAT
          I can see here that he owns his own
          office.

                      SHIRIN
          Okay, so?

                    BILLING BUREAUCRAT
          Well, consider selling the office.

Shirin laughs, then it dawns on her this woman isn't joking.


INT. BROWNSTONE - KITCHEN - 1982 - DAY

Shirin holds her head at the table.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          She was too proud to fail. She was
          never going back to her home
          country, so it was success in
          America or bust.


INT. HOSPITAL - BILLING - 1982 - DAY

                    SHIRIN
          Sell the office to pay a hospital
          bill?


EXT. STREET - 1982 - NIGHT

Shirin leans on a cab, smoking a cigarette.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          My mom was the queen of
          stubbornness, a trait I'd later go
          on to perfect.


INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - 1982 - DAY

Ali Reza is still recovering in bed, but he's hooked up to
fewer machines and is propped up with a book on his lap.
                                      37.


          SHIRIN
    (in Persian)
The building is worth 200 thousand.

          ALI REZA
    (in Persian)
I bought it for 40 thousand and
that is what I'll sell it for.

          SHIRIN
    (in Persian)
Fine. How do you expect to pay your
hospital bills? We talked about
this, Ali Reza. The building is
worth five times what you paid.

          ALI REZA
    (in Persian)
It is what it is.

          SHIRIN
    (in Persian)
We can take a loan.

          ALI REZA
    (in Persian)
We won't take any loans. We won't
borrow from anyone. There is a word
for that...usury.

           SHIRIN
     (in Persian)
This isn't Iran. We live in America
now.

          ALI REZA
    (in Persian)
Do you think God cares where we
live? There are not two right
things to do.

          SHIRIN
    (in Persian)
And feeding our nine children? And
paying your medical bills? What
does God have to say about that?

          ALI REZA
    (in Persian)
God is generous.
                                                        38.


EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREET - 1982 - NIGHT

Shirin has reached the end of her rope. Tears stream down her
eyes as she walks, utterly brutalized by her life.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          My mom became a single-minded
          woman. The path was right in front
          of her.

She mutters a desperate, angry prayer.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          God help me!

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          And then everything changed.

She looks up towards the heavens, but before her eyes get
there, she sees a huge billboard - like a sign from God.


CLOSE ON BILLBOARD


MAKE $$$ FAST TODAY! CALL 1-800-REALTOR

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          Yah Imam Zaman.

Shirin walks to a payphone.

With trembling hands, she reaches into her purse and pulls
out various items: a half-eaten apple, used and new tissues,
eyedrops, until she finds a ... DIME.

She drops in the coin and dials the number.

                    SHIRIN (CONT'D)
          I am calling about becoming a
          realtor.

Intercut with a RECEPTIONIST wearing a telemarketing headset.

                    RECEPTIONIST
          Hello!
              (singing)
          Welcome to 1-800-Start-Being-A-
          Realtor, yeah!
                                                        39.


                    SHIRIN
          Okay, thank you? So how can I
          become a realtor? I have to make
          money right away.

                    RECEPTIONIST
          I like your enthusiasm! After you
          take our brief eight week course,
          you can start working at any real
          estate agency.

                    SHIRIN
          Are there any other requirements?

                    RECEPTIONIST
          You just need a high school diploma
          or a GED.

                    SHIRIN
          And I can make lots of money?

                    RECEPTIONIST
          Your opportunities as a realtor are
          endless, always remember that.

                    SHIRIN
          Okay, thank you.

She hangs up.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          When she found the path, she took
          multitasking to another level. And
          all this without Adderall.


INT. PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL - NIGHT SCHOOL - 1982 - NIGHT

Shirin takes her place at the front of the class of misfits,
immigrants, and pregnant teens. She's the odd one out but her
pencils are sharpened and she's ready to rock.

                    TEACHER
          Welcome to the accelerated GED
          program. Over the next eight weeks,
          we're going to be meeting every
          Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 7-
          10pm. You cannot miss a single
          class.
                                                        40.


INT. BROWNSTONE - LIVING ROOM - 1982 - NIGHT

The apartment is in a state of utter chaos. As the boys run
wild, Young Leila and Shirin sit at the kitchen table - both
working on numbers. Young Leila on her math homework, and
Shirin on her real estate mortgage calculations for the test,
and the math section of her GED.

                    YOUNG LEILA
          I solved it! God, I love math.

Shirin smiles proudly.

                    SHIRIN
          Can you help me, here?

                    YOUNG LEILA
          Abbas's better than me, ask him.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          You can do anything, better than
          your brother.

Young Leila loves this vote of confidence.


EXT. BROOKLYN BRIDGE - 1982 - DAY

Shirin walks to her class.


INT. REAL ESTATE CLASS - 1982 - DAY

Shirin is at the front of this classroom too, which has a
student body with a totally different demographic: yuppies-in-
training, recent divorce�s, all white.

Shirin is clearly gifted at the complicated math concepts;
she helps a DIVORCEE calculate a closing cost.

                    SHIRIN
          Uh, excuse me. You have two hundred
          thousand dollars left on your
          mortgage, but you have paid one
          hundred thousand dollars. That is
          your equity.

                       DIVORCEE
          Thank you.

                    SHIRIN
          Yes. Of course.
                                                          41.


The INSTRUCTOR watches, approvingly, then stops Shirin.

                    INSTRUCTOR
          You're a natural.

Shirin is too tired to appreciate the compliment.

                    SHIRIN
          Oh, thank you.

                    INSTRUCTOR
          Any news about your GED?

                    SHIRIN
          I have already mailed for it. It
          will be here, um -- I will have it
          in a few weeks.

                    INSTRUCTOR
          Okay. But before the test, alright?


INT. PATHMARK - 1982 - NIGHT

Shirin is speed-shopping. She fills the cart in record time.

In the distance, a STONED MAN is waxing the floors, walkman
blaring and wearing sunglasses inside, at night.

At the frozen foods, Shirin shuffles thru her STACK OF
COUPONS before she grabs a few frozen spinach packs.

At the check out, Shirin piles the food and hands the girl a
huge stack of coupons. She's in a big hurry.

                    CHECK OUT GIRL
          Sorry. This coupon is for the 24
          ounce frosted flakes. You have the
          16 ounce.

                     SHIRIN
          Seriously? My kids are waiting.
          It's fine.

                    CHECK OUT GIRL
          If you want the half off coupon...

                       SHIRIN
          I -- okay.

Shirin has no time for this shit. She runs full speed to the
cereal aisle. She scans the shelves. 24 oz...
                                                        42.


WHAM! Shirin is knocked down by the waxing machine operated
by the stoned employee in sunglasses. Shirin falls flat on
her back on the tile floor of the supermarket. CRACK!

Shirin SCREAMS in pain. Her neck is broken.

                    WOMAN
              (muffled)
          Call 9-1-1! The ambulance is
          coming.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          But my mom wasn't one to let a
          broken neck get in her way. She was
          going to get that license at any
          cost.


INT. BROWNSTONE - BEDROOM - 1982 - DAY

Shirin is lying on the couch in incredible pain but trying to
put on a happy face for her daughter.

                     LEILA (V.O.)
          Even if it meant making my life
          miserable.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          Are you not going to cook dinner?

                    YOUNG LEILA
          Mom, can we just get pizza? I want
          to play basketball.

                    SHIRIN
          We don't have money.

                    YOUNG LEILA
          You ask me to cook cause I'm a
          girl.

                    SHIRIN
          No, I ask you because I can count
          on you.

                    YOUNG LEILA
          I want to play basketball.

Shirin looses her cool and throws her water glass across the
room. SMASH.
                                                           43.


                    SHIRIN
          I am in so much goddamn pain,
          Leila!

                    YOUNG LEILA
          Fine. I'll make the damn dinner.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          And then, a miracle appeared again.

The doorbell BUZZES. Shirin has no choice but to get up.


MOMENTS LATER

                    LAWYER
          Judging from your injuries, we can
          get you up to one hundred thousand
          dollars.

Is she hallucinating? They sit on the couch surrounded by
broken glass.

                    SHIRIN
          A hundred thousand dollars?

                    LAWYER
          That's right.

                    SHIRIN
          Would that money go to my husband's
          account or can it go directly to my
          account?

                    LAWYER
          Wherever you want.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          And the path became even clearer.


INT. REAL ESTATE CLASS - 1982 - DAY

Shirin slams a paper on the instructor's desk.

                    SHIRIN
          Here is the GED. Can I take my real
          estate exam, please?

                    INSTRUCTOR
          Huh. The GED.
                                                           44.


Shirin takes her seat. She washes a fistful of Advil down
with a can of Tab. It makes a loud sound as she cracks it
open.

                    SHIRIN
          Sorry.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          My mom wasn't the only one with
          shoulder pads and ambitions. What
          was I trying to do with this
          writing? Prove myself?


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - KITCHEN - PRESENT - MORNING

Leila types on her laptop. She's trying her best to
concentrate on her new screenplay.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          I was doing my best to fail my
          parents and I was doing a good job.


INT. MOVIE THEATER - DAY

Leila sits in an empty theater watching a film projection.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          I dreamt of being an Iranian-
          American Martin Scorsese. Seeing my
          stories on the big screen.


INT. TACKY BANQUET HALL - PERSIAN WEDDING - PAST - DAY

Close up of Dr. Jamshidpour's daughter: frozen in panic,
wearing a bridal dress.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          But my parents had other ideas.

                    BRIDE'S MOTHER
              (in Persian)
          When is Leila getting married?

Shirin and Ali Reza are standing amongst the crowd.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          Good question.

They all pose for a photo.
                                                         45.


                    LEILA (V.O.)
          And this campaign was endless.

                                                  CUT TO:


ANOTHER BANQUET HALL

                    BRIDE'S MOTHER
              (in Persian)
          So, when is Leila getting married?

                    ALI REZA
              (in Persian)
          A miracle must happen.

                    LEILA
              (to the bride)
          Hey, what are you doing later
          tonight?


INT. TACKY WEDDING HALL - PERSIAN WEDDING - PAST - DAY

Ali Reza and Shirin watch with despair as another friend's
daughter has a successful wedding. Leila is at the wedding
and addresses the camera.

                    LEILA
          Their disappointment in me was like
          artistic rocket fuel.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. ALICE TULLY HALL - NEW YORK FILM FESTIVAL - PAST - DAY

A scene from Leila's film plays to a rapt audience. The
camera moves onto one audience member, Shirin, who watches in
horror.

                    LEILA
              (addressing the camera)
          And I finally was showing my work
          at the fancy New York Film
          Festival, every filmmaker's dream.

                    LEILA (CONT'D)
              (to her mother)
          Mom, what do you think?

                    SHIRIN
          You do this to hurt me.
                                                        46.


The credits roll, and the audience leaps to its feet, but
Leila can only see her mother's dismay.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - KITCHEN - MORNING

Leila stares at her screenplay.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          I still had no idea what the
          scandal was. Delving into my own
          psychosis wasn't helping writer's
          block. Best to be more productive
          and search ways I was probably
          dying.

On her computer: 10 SIGNS OF BREAST CANCER.

                    LEILA
          Fuck, fuck, fuck.


EXT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - DAY

Leila charges out of the house.


INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - EXAM ROOM - DAY

Leila, sits across from her doctor and childhood best friend,
DOCTOR ANAHITA SHOJAEI (31).

                    LEILA
          I don't know, like, I've just been
          feeling really under the weather
          lately.

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          I have the test results back.

                    LEILA
          I have cancer. I knew it.

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Do you want to have cancer? Or do
          you want to know what's going on.

                    LEILA
          Is that a trick question?

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Alright...you are pregnant.
                                                47.


                    LEILA (V.O.)
          Fuck.

FLASH to Leila and Hedwig hooking up.

                    LEILA
          Oh my god, I love drag queens.

BACK in the doctor's office.

                    LEILA (CONT'D)
              (to camera)
          Oh, fuck.

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Very pregnant. Did you notice you
          missed last 2 periods?

                    LEILA
          I thought it was just, like, stress
          from my film.

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Well at least its not cancer, okay?
          That's good news, right?

                    LEILA
          No, I'd prefer cancer.

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          So...how did all this happen? I
          assume this was not planned.

                    LEILA
          No, I didn't know you could get
          knocked up from a one night stand.

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Leila, it just takes once.

                    LEILA
          Now you give me the sex ed talk...

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Well, I didn't know I had to since
          you're a lesbian!


EXT. STREETS - NEW YORK CITY - NIGHT

Persian female rap music plays.
                                                         48.


As Leila walks, she feeds her anger. She stuffs her face with
a ridiculous spread of food: pizza, noodles, cheese burger,
milk shake, and cheesecake.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          Holy fuck. I'm a lesbian. I can't
          be pregnant.

                    LEILA
              (to camera, shoveling
               cheesecake)
          It's not considered binge eating
          when you're pregnant, right?

                                              FLASHBACK TO:


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - KITCHEN - 8 YEARS AGO

Leila flashes back to this dark memory.

                    SHIRIN
          I think you should leave.


EXT. BELASCO THEATER - NEW YORK - NIGHT

Leila walks to the door, hesitates, and turns to leave. Then,
she pivots, breathes, and decides to enter.


INT. BELASCO THEATER - HEDWIG DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Leila sneaks back to Hedwig's dressing room, the door says
Maximillian Balthazar. Maximillian is starring as Hedwig.

Leila enters. Hedwig, half out of costume, is surprised to
see Leila. Without the wig, he is halfway between Maximillian
and Hedwig.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          I'm glad you came. Did you like it?

Leila sits across from Hedwig. Just two girls having a heart
to heart.

                    LEILA
          You were amazing.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          You finally called.

Let's call it a pregnant pause.
                                                  49.


                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG (CONT'D)
          So how long has it been?

                    LEILA
          Twelve weeks.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
              (a little alarmed)
          That's a very specific number.

                    LEILA
          Well, I just got out of my first
          trimester. Um...

He is floored.

A KNOCK at the door.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          Ah ... can you give us a couple of
          minutes in here?

                    STAGE MANAGER (O.S.)
              (through door)
          You got a lot of people out here
          waiting for you.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
              (to stage manager)
          Yeah, I'll be right out.

                    LEILA
          I can go. I just wanted to tell
          you.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          No, no, please, please. I want to
          help ... What do you want to do?

                    LEILA
          Um, I think I'm going to keep it.

                       MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          Really?

                    LEILA
          There's no pressure or anything,
          I'm just letting you know.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          Yeah, okay. Good. So you want to
          keep it.
                                                    50.


                    LEILA
          Yes, I think so. Yeah, I'm as
          surprised as you.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          Well, then let's give it a go.

                    LEILA
          No, no pressure or anything.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          No, I would like to see you
          again...

                    LEILA
          I mean, you got me locked in for
          another 6 months.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          Does this mean you'll return my
          calls?

He smiles charmingly, but with a twinkle of fear.

                    LEILA
          Just to be clear, right, I'm not
          gonna stop working just because I'm
          having a baby.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          Yeah, neither am I, so --

                    LEILA
          Like, if I want to work in Japan
          during a tsunami while I'm pregnant
          I will.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          Ok.

                    LEILA
          Or, like, to Sri Lanka during mass
          genocide I will...

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          I mean, if you really want to. I
          think that war's been over for a
          few months now...

                    LEILA
          Right.
                                                         51.


                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          Right, so, can I take you to
          dinner?

                    LEILA
          It's so late right now, so, I am
          going to get some rest.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          Okay, um, tomorrow, lunch?

                    LEILA
          I have lunch plans with my family.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          Perfect. They can meet me, that's
          perfect. Where do they live?

                       LEILA
          In Jersey.

                    MAXIMILLIAN/HEDWIG
          Jersey, Jersey, hm...

                    LEILA
          What the fuck is wrong with Jersey?


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - DINING ROOM - DAY

Maximillian, now fully out of his Hedwig drag, looks a
typical clean cut white bread British boy.

Seven Jamshidpour brothers (Shivaz, Majid, Hamid, Eman,
Abbas, Rostam, and Zal), Shirin, Mamanjoon, Leila, and
Maximillian sit at a huge round table, which nearly buckles
under the weight of the food.

Maximillian is keenly aware of himself as the center of
attention: he's putting on his best charm offensive but it's
clear that he could very well be the next course.

                    MAMANJOON
              (in Persian)
          (Pasar Zeshtoo keya?) Who's this
          ugly guy?

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Uh, what'd she say?

                    MAJID
          She said you have, um, really nice
          teeth.
                                     52.


          MAXIMILLIAN
Oh, uh, my dad's a dentist.

          MAJID
Oh, no way.

          MAXIMILLIAN
Um...
    (to Leila)
How do you say "dentist" in
Persian?

          LEILA
Not now. So, Mom, how's dad?

          MAJID
Hopefully he'll wake up soon.

          SHIVAZ
Dad is asking about you.

          HAMID
When was the last time you graced
us with your presence,
Lululollipop?

          MAXIMILLIAN
Lululollipop?

          SHIVAZ
Well we're honored you're here.

          LEILA
Well, I could never resist a good
lo mein.

          EMAN
Hey, at least she's not as much of
a fuck up as Vahid is.

          SHIRIN
Hey, do not talk about someone who
is not here.

          MAXIMILLIAN
    (under his breath)
So, are you going to tell them?

          LEILA
    (whispered)
I'll send them an email.
                                                          53.


                    MAXIMILLIAN
              (whispered)
          Are you crazy?

                    LEILA
              (whispered)
          It's a cultural thing.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          No it's not.

                    EMAN
          What are you guys whispering about?

The table goes cold for a minute. Maximillian takes the
opportunity to blurt it out.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          I'm having a baby.

                    SHIVAZ
          You're having a baby?

                    MAMANJOON
              (in Persian)
          What did he say?

                    BROTHER
              (in Persian)
          He says: I'm pregnant.

                    MAMANJOON
              (in Persian)
          My God, men get pregnant in this
          country?

                    LEILA
          No, I'm pregnant.

                    HAMID
          You're pregnant by a gay guy.

                    LEILA
          He's not gay, he's European.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Only on special occasions. No, uh,
          I'm not gay.

                    SHIVAZ
          Clearly - considering you knocked
          up my gay sister.
                                               54.


                    EMAN
          He's thespian, not a lesbian.

                    LEILA
          Okay, classy. I'm still gay - I
          just happened to get pregnant.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
              (whispering to Leila)
          You weren't gay on Halloween.

                    MAMANJOON
              (in Persian)
          What did he say?

                    ZAL
              (in Persian)
          He said: I'm a child of England.

                    ROSTAM
              (in Persian)
          Meaning: Leila is pregnant.

                    MAMANJOON
              (in Persian)
          Leila! Didn't I tell you "from the
          back door"? The front!

The brothers laugh.

                      SHIRIN
          Maman!

                    SHIVAZ
          Some people like coffee and some
          people like tea.

                    ABBAS
          Not that we have any problem with
          gay people.

                    EMAN
          Wait you and Elena aren't together
          anymore?

                    ABBAS
          They broke up six months ago.

                    SHIVAZ
          Some people like coffee and tea.

                    MAJID
          Some people like thespians.
                                                        55.


                     ABBAS
          Congrats, sis. You're gonna be a
          great mom.

He puts out his fist. Leila bumps her brother's fist.

                    LEILA
          Thanks. I'm gonna get some water.

Leila gets up to go to escape to the kitchen. Shirin takes
Maximillian in for a long moment, then goes to the kitchen
herself.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Leila rests her head in her hands, trying to figure out what
to do next. Shirin walks and it's a stare-down.

                    SHIRIN
          Leila, how can you be so
          irresponsible? I hope you are
          getting married.

                    LEILA
          I was married to Elena and you
          destroyed that. If you ever want to
          see your granddaughter, you'll
          never bring up the word marriage
          again.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          It's a girl?

Leila nods defiantly, then leaves her mom alone in the
kitchen. For a moment Shirin realizes her part in this
estrangement, but the cycle of pain and rejection continues.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - LIVING ROOM - LATER

Hamid is having everyone pose for a photo, setting up the
timer on his mini tripod. Hamid keeps indicating for everyone
to squeeze closer together.

Maximillian is surrounded by the Jamshidpour clan for a
crowded photo. Leila is at his right, Shirin at his left, and
the brothers are all around them. Nobody says a word.

                    LEILA
              (looking at her mother and
               then camera)
          Did she break up my marriage?
                    (MORE)
                                                        56.
                    LEILA (CONT'D)
          We were so in love. I was living
          the out of the box lifestyle I
          always wanted.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. RESTAURANT - NEW JERSEY - NIGHT

Leila and Elena in love. Leila serenading Elena, very badly,
with Indigo Girls' cover of ROMEO and JULIET.

                    ELENA
          I love you.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Leila continues to address the camera.

                    LEILA
          ...until life intervened.


EXT. RESTAURANT - NEW JERSEY - DAY

Elena and Leila later in their relationship. They are in mid-
fight.

                    LEILA
          I thought that the whole point of
          being in a radical queer
          relationship was I wouldn't be
          forced to be a damn housewife.

                    ELENA
          Being responsible isn't being a
          housewife. It's keeping your word
          and us having a child this year.
          Not leaving for six months on a
          film shoot.

                    LEILA
              (defiant)
          I'm making my film now. I'm not
          gonna postpone.

                    ELENA
          How can you be so disgustingly
          selfish?

                    LEILA
              (to Elena)
          I need to be selfish.
                                                          57.


                    ELENA
          Well, then, I need to break up with
          you.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          So, it's not all my mom's fault.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - BACK TO REAL TIME

Everyone waits for the flash of the camera to go off. Leila
looks over to her mother surrounded by the sea of men.

                    LEILA
              (addressing the camera)
          But it's so much easier blaming our
          mothers...isn't it?

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          I was just terrified to be like
          her. I had to do motherhood my way.

Leila gives this statement some thought.

                    LEILA
              (addressing camera)
          The thing is, just when I thought I
          had my mother figured out...

CU of Leila with an impenetrable expression.


INT. J.J. ELEK REALTY - WOODBRIDGE, NEW JERSEY - 1989 - DAY

CU: Leila (14) with big hair and the same expression. All the
glory of the late 80s.

                    LEILA
              (addressing camera)
          ...she would throw a monkey wrench
          into my story. She was a character
          I couldn't pin down - who kept
          reinventing herself.

Leila freezes. That images become the pictures in the frames
on Shirin's desk. Shirin (42) writes diligently at a desk.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          And this time, she invented herself
          as an ultra-successful immigrant
          businesswoman.

                                                PULL OUT TO:
                                                        58.


The office of JJ Elek realty attracts two types of people:
white and those that are here to see Shirin. An enormous
FAMILY of Chinese-Americans enter the main office and are
lead by the secretary to Shirin's small private office.


TITLE: THE 90S, NEW JERSEY

Shirin has Twinkies and Oreos ready for the kids, and a
samovar of tea for the parents: old country in New Jersey.

                    SHIRIN
          So, Mr. and Mrs. Park, it is a very
          big day. Are you excited?

                       THE PARKS
          Yes.

                     SHIRIN
          You are going to absolutely love
          it. I have prepared everything for
          you like we discussed, I just need
          you to sign right here, and here.
          Perfect. Congratulations! You are
          going to be inside your new home
          very soon.

                       MR. PARK
          Thank you.

                       SHIRIN
          Of course!

JIM (50), the JJ in JJ Elek, watches Shirin prep paperwork
and hand out the snacks to the family, trying hard not to
judge.

They sign the closing forms and Shirin opens the door to her
office, where Jim is waiting.

                    JIM
          So, Shirin, are you running a
          refugee camp here or what?

                    SHIRIN
          Third closing this week.

                    JIM
          You're doing better than me.

                    SHIRIN
          The funny thing about refugees is
          they love to buy homes.
                                                        59.


EXT. SUBURBAN HOME - OPEN HOUSE - 1989 - DAY

Leila stands against their station wagon while her mom sets
out a large sign for the open house on the lawn. The sign has
a large beauty photo of Shirin on it.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          My mom always leaned on me hard. To
          be her little helper.

                    SHIRIN
          Don't work too hard, honey!

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          I had to stand up to her or she
          would crush me.

With the sign perfectly set in the grass, Shirin grabs a box
of goodies from the car.

                    SHIRIN
          I need your help setting up inside
          for the open house tonight.

                    LEILA
          I'll just wait here.

                    SHIRIN
          Just 10 minutes.

                    LEILA
          You always say 10 minutes.

But Shirin gives her the look of death ....

                       SHIRIN
          Let's go.


INT. SUBURBAN HOME - OPEN HOUSE - 1989 - DAY

Leila opens up her math homework on the kitchen counter,
which hasn't been remodeled for a couple of decades. Shirin
arranges flowers, arranges the color fliers, sprays the air
with scented spray.

                       LEILA
                 (coughing)
          Mom!

Shirin looks over her daughter's shoulder with pride and a
little jealousy.
                                                          60.


                    SHIRIN
          That looks fun.

                    LEILA
          It's calculus. There's no way you'd
          understand this.

Shirin swallows hard and says nothing. She finishes filling
out her own forms.

                    SHIRIN
          Can you check the spelling of this
          contract? Just one minute, please.

Leila looks over the contract.

                    LEILA
          Mom, oh my god, you're such a bad
          speller! You didn't even spell
          "thousand" right!

                    SHIRIN
          I am a bad speller so you could be
          a good one.

                     LEILA
               (impatient, embarrassed)
          I have mid-terms. There's so many
          mistakes. This is going to take all
          day.

Shirin takes a breath and tries hide her embarrassment.

                    SHIRIN
          Just fix it please. Thank you for
          helping.


INT. J.J. ELEK REALTY - SHIRIN OFFICE'S - NJ - 1989

Shirin flips thru a binder of listings with her newest
client, a traditionally-dressed Indian PRIYA ANAND. Shirin
has decked out her office - it's kid heaven. A play area for
kids includes TV/VCR cartoons, bean bags, and snacks galore.
Priya's 4 KIDS (ages 4-9) munch on Cool Ranch Doritos
watching cartoons while the grown women talk real estate.

                    SHIRIN
          But Mrs. Kahn, why throw away money
          on rent?

                    PRIYA
          We can barely make that rent as it
          is.
                                                          61.


                    SHIRIN
          The house I am about to show you -
          the mortgage is going to be $200 a
          month less than your rent.
              (looking at the kids)
          It has four bedrooms. Your mother
          in law can visit.

                    PRIYA
          My mother in law is like an
          Impressionist painting. You can
          appreciate her better at a
          distance.

They laugh. Shirin has her in the palm of her hand.

                    PRIYA (CONT'D)
          We can't afford a down payment.

                    SHIRIN
          First time home owners, no down
          payment needed.

                    PRIYA
          You must be joking.

                     SHIRIN
          Oh, I never joke about business,
          Mrs. Kahn.


INT. J.J. ELEK REALTY - SHIRIN'S OFFICE - LATER

Shirin eats pizza while studying the map of Edison NJ. She
circles foreclosures in the newspaper in red ink.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - LIVING ROOM - 1989

The American Dream: a single family home in New Jersey.

Ali Reza, dressed in his wife's pink house robe, watches TV
while making sandwiches for the kids. Teenage Leila, with
really big hair, plays gameboy on a handheld device seated
next her father.

Shirin, in a power suit and with a hot mug of coffee, joins
the family. Gone are the days where she takes the kids'
breakfast orders, she's now the breadwinner.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian to her
               husband)
          Wow, you shaved.
                    (MORE)
                                                           62.
                    SHIRIN (CONT'D)
              (to Leila, in Persian)
          You should've worn more makeup.

WPIX news coverage of racial violence in Jersey City plays on
the TV: a newscaster is interviewing three Indian brothers.

                    NEWSCASTER
              (on TV)
          ... Can you tell us what happened
          last night, Mr. Patel?

                    RAJ PATEL
              (on TV, near tears)
          We've been here for ten years.

                    SHIRIN
              (to Ali Reza, in Persian)
          Turn it up.

                    RAJ PATEL
          They burned everything we have.
          Everything we worked for. I don't
          know what we did. We are good
          people. And they just came and
          ruined everything for us.

                    NEWSCASTER
          This is the seventh such attack in
          the Jersey City area. We're here in
          Journal Square...

Shirin gets an IDEA.


INT. J.J. ELEK REALTY - SHIRIN'S OFFICE - 1989 - MONTAGE

Shirin's office now has several certificates on the wall,
marking month after month of Shirin as TOP SELLER at the
agency. She meets with various clients.

                    SHIRIN
          So, Mr. and Mrs.
          Rodriguez...Patel...Garcia...today
          is a very big day. Are you excited?
          I've prepared everything for you
          the way we discussed, all I need is
          for you to sign right here, and
          here. Amazing and congratulations!


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - KITCHEN - 1989 - MONTAGE

With chaos ensuing, Shirin reads home renovation books.
                                                        63.


INT. STORE - EDISON, NEW JERSEY - 1989 - DAY

The RAJ PATEL from the TV news story walks in.

                    SHIRIN
          Right this way, watch your step.
          Three thousand square feet for your
          grocery store.

                    RAJ PATEL
          You're renovating this yourself?

                    SHIRIN
          Immigrants, we know how to save
          money. We go through a lot. You
          know, like I said, I was so moved
          by your story. And I am so happy
          that you are here and excited. And
          you know what the best part is? In
          this whole neighborhood, no market.
          I don't know why.

                    RAJ PATEL
          Then why are you giving us three
          months free?

                    SHIRIN
          If your business does well, then we
          can negotiate terms that we both
          find fair. Your success will be my
          success. And I know you will have
          success.

                    RAJ PATEL
          This seems too good to be true, no?

                    SHIRIN
          Do you know what my boss said when
          I first started selling real estate
          to immigrants? He said, "Bring one,
          and the whole village comes." He
          meant it as a warning, but I, I saw
          that as an opportunity. I
          understand something that they
          don't. I have been the top seller
          in my agency for the past six
          months. I haven't done commercial
          yet, but I own these three
          buildings free and clear. I see an
          opportunity. I believe in this
          project. And I believe in you, Mr.
          Patel.

Leila brings over a sign that reads "Patel Brothers."
                                                64.


                    SHIRIN (CONT'D)
          A little presumptuous maybe, but --

                       RAJ PATEL
          Wow.

                    SHIRIN
          Nice, right?

                       RAJ PATEL
          Very nice.

                    LEILA
              (to camera)
          The opportunity my mom saw? Today,
          we call it Little India.


EXT. STORE - EDISON, NEW JERSEY - CONTINUOUS

They carry the sign out.

                    SHIRIN
          Right, Leila, go on the other side.
          Sorry, one second.

They hold the sign up above the door.

                    SHIRIN (CONT'D)
          Right in the center now, you see
          what I see?

                       RAJ PATEL
          Yeah.

                    SHIRIN
          What do you think?

                       RAJ PATEL
          Yes.

They shake.

                    RAJ PATEL (CONT'D)
          Thank you so much.

                    SHIRIN
          Congratulations, Mr. Patel.
                                                        65.


INT. HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL COURT - NEW JERSEY - 1989 - DAY

The New Jersey State Quarterfinals for Girls Basketball are
underway and the stands are packed. Gulf War paraphernalia
everywhere.

Shirin, wearing her real estate power suit, stands
inconspicuously in the back of the gym, watching her daughter
drive to the basket.

Leila draws a foul so blatant she's knocked to the ground.

Shirin instinctively puts her hand to her mouth in horror,
then watches her teammates lift her up and smack her on the
ass. Leila's bruised but she's fine. She winks at the GOON
who knocked her down, because the free throw line is where
Leila is truly unstoppable.

Shirin clocks Abbas, Leila's twin brother, in his cheerleader
uniform. He hurls a CUTE WHITE GIRL into the air and catches
her effortlessly. America is truly topsy turvy.

Her babies have really grown up.

Leila sinks both baskets, and her team pulls ahead. The crowd
erupts. Shirin wants to see the end of the game, but her
watch tells her she needs to go.


INT. J.J. ELEK REALTY - JIM'S OFFICE - 1989 - LATER

Shirin rushes in late to her meeting with her boss.

                    SHIRIN
          Sorry I'm late.

                    JIM
          Did they win?

                    SHIRIN
          Well, I had to leave before
          halftime. But Leila was on the way
          to another triple double.

                    JIM
          Do I hear basketball scholarship?

                    SHIRIN
          No. She is going to get academic
          scholarship.

                    JIM
          So, you've been agent of the month
          for eight months. What's next?
                                                        66.


                    SHIRIN
          I'm glad you asked. Do you know Oak
          Tree Road? Okay, all the stores are
          boarded up and I have this plan...


INT. HIGH SCHOOL - BASKETBALL COURT - LATER

Leila, still wearing her basketball uniform, and Abbas, in
his cheer uniform, are waiting in a near-empty gym doing
their homework on the floor. Not the first time their mom is
late.

                    SHIRIN
          How was the game?

                    LEILA
          You would know if you were there.
          The quarterfinals. You forgot.

                     SHIRIN
          Sorry I'm too busy putting food on
          the table.

                    ABBAS
          Did anyone see my smoking guns?

                    SHIRIN
          Guns?

                    ABBAS
          Like, muscles.

                    SHIRIN
              (to Abbas)
          I really love that you support your
          sister, but you need to get
          involved in a real sport. Not
          throwing those white girls in the
          air looking under their skirts.
          Leila, sweatpants.

                    LEILA
          No, it's too hot.

                    SHIRIN
          Do you want to start this with your
          father again?

                    ABBAS
          Leila, don't be a bad Muslim.
                                                           67.


                    LEILA
          I'll stop shaving my legs if you
          grow out a nice long Muslim beard.

                    SHIRIN
          This country, my daughter plays
          basketball and my son a
          cheerleader. Leila, pants, let's
          go!

                    ABBAS
          Put your pants on, you slut.

                      LEILA
          Shut up.

                    ABBAS
          You should give me some of your
          facial hair too.

                    LEILA
          Get out of here.

Leila sighs and pulls the sweatpants out of her gym bag.

                      SHIRIN
          Hurry up!

                    LEILA
          So stupid...


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - KITCHEN - BACK TO PRESENT DAY

Leila upset, calms herself by cooking an elaborate Persian
feast. The same way her mom cooks, chops, dices, fries,
spices by taste. You just want to reach out and eat the food.

                    LEILA (V.O.)
          I always thought I had to stand up
          to my mom. I finally realized, I
          needed to try to understand her.
          Any maybe uncovering the scandal
          could let me do that.


INT. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL - PATIENT ROOM - DAY

Leila enters to see her mother, Abbas, and Hamid sleeping at
her father's bedside. Machines sprout from his body.

After a moment, Shirin opens her eyes. Leila and her mother
just look at each other, each holding their cards tight. Is a
reconciliation possible?
                                                         68.


                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          Weren't you supposed to be taking
          care of Mamanjoon?

                    LEILA
              (whispering)
          I made you some food.

Leila takes out a Tupperware filled with Persian delicacies.

                    SHIRIN
          My favorite.

Leila smiles, mother looks at her daughter with a flash of
love.

                    SHIRIN (CONT'D)
          We don't need you here, Leila. Go
          home and take care of Mamanjoon.

Fuck this! Leila leaves the hospital room filled with rage.


EXT. BRIDGE - EVENING

Leila walks home.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - LEILA'S CHILDHOOD BEDROOM - EVENING

Leila finds Mamanjoon sleeping in her bed.

                     LEILA
          Mamanjoon?
              (in Persian)
          I really need you.
              (in English)
          Need some cheering up, Mamanjoon.


EXT. BACKYARD - EVENING

Leila and Mamanjoon dance together.


INT. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL - PATIENT ROOM - DAY

Shirin looks at Ali Reza. Her words echo.

                    SHIRIN (V.O.)
          We don't need you here, Leila.
                                                        69.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - LEILA'S CHILDHOOD BEDROOM - MORNING

Leila wakes up remembering the dark moment.


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - LIVING ROOM - LATER

Leila serves Persian food to Mamanjoon, who is impressed by
the beautiful spread. Conversation in Persian.

                    MAMANJOON
          Thanks, love! You still got it.

                    LEILA
          If film doesn't work out, I could
          open a restaurant.

                    MAMANJOON
          In the West you live to work. You
          are your work. What about joy? You
          don't even have a family to support
          yet. So why work, work, work?

                    LEILA
          I work because I have ambitions...

                    MAMANJOON
          Remember to live your life amongst
          all those ambitions. You'll be a
          mother soon. So don't forget
          yourself.

They eat in silence.

                    LEILA
          So about the scandal you mentioned
          before...


EXT. VILLAGE - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin looks out over the village

                    LEILA (O.S.)
              (in Persian)
          Why did my parents come to America?


INT. JAMSHIDPOUR HOME - LIVING ROOM - PRESENT - DAY

                    MAMANJOON
          Your mom was a lot like you when
          she was young.
                                                           70.


EXT. GIRLS SCHOOL - SHIRAZ, IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin (13) dominates in the Mathematics competition.

TITLE: THE 60s, IRAN

                    MAMANJOON (O.S.)
          She was brilliant.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          The square root of 4356 is 66.

Young Shirin answers the final question to win the school
mathematics gold ribbon.

                    MAMANJOON (V.O.)
          Back then, girls didn't have the
          same chance as boys.

                                                     CUT TO:


EXT. FAMILY HOME - SHIRAZ - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin and Young Mamanjoon (40) sit outside.

                    YOUNG MAMANJOON
          You're so selfish.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          So what if I'm selfish? I want to
          finish 7th grade. I don't want to
          get married.


EXT. FAMILY HOME - SHIRAZ - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin, Young Ali Reza, and their family pose for a
wedding photo.

                    MAMANJOON (V.O.)
          When she married your father, they
          moved to a remote village with no
          water or electricity. Opposite of
          where she grew up. When your
          brother Shivaz was born I went to
          the village to help your mom.

                                                     CUT TO:
                                                         71.


INT. VILLAGE HOME - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Mamanjoon sweeps while Young Shirin washes the laundry
in the cold well water. She wants to connect with her
daughter but doesn't know how.

                    YOUNG MAMANJOON
          Why are you washing all those
          clothes? Leave it.

                      YOUNG SHIRIN
          I'm fine.

                    YOUNG MAMANJOON
          You just had a baby, let me help
          you.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          I said I'm fine.

Baby Shivaz cries. Young Mamanjoon runs to pick up her
grandson.

                    YOUNG MAMANJOON
          I'll get Shivaz.


INT. VILLAGE HOME - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin brings her mother tea as she sings to the baby.

                    YOUNG MAMANJOON
          You don't have to suffer like this.
          You're a new mum, and need some
          rest.

Baby Shivaz cries and Young Shirin raises to rock his crib.
Young Mamanjoon continues singing.


EXT. VILLAGE HOME - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Mamanjoon hugs her pregnant daughter goodbye. They are
both holding back tears.

Young Ali Reza holds baby Shivaz.

                    MAMANJOON (V.O.)
          It was 2 days journey home. Their
          village was so remote. It was one
          day by donkey to the closest bus
          stop.
                                                          72.


We see her ride a donkey, led by a local villager, toward a
larger country town.


EXT. BUS STATION - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

                    MAMANJOON (V.O.)
          And then of course, we had to wait
          for the bus.

Young Mamanjoon sits in the crowded waiting area, which has a
mix of villagers in colorful outfits, and modern Persians in
western dress.

A VILLAGE WOMAN in colorful garb sits next to Young
Mamanjoon. A man serves the women tea from a silver tray.

Young Mamanjoon pulls out the little care package her
daughter has made. She unwraps a Shirazi delicacy: dates
stuffed with walnuts. She offers one to the woman sitting
next to her.

                       YOUNG MAMANJOON
          Have some.

                    VILLAGE WOMAN
          Thank you, my dear.

                    YOUNG MAMANJOON
          May you have a long life.

They sip the tea and delight in the dates for a moment.

                    VILLAGE WOMAN
          What brings you to our part of the
          country?

                    YOUNG MAMANJOON
          Well, my daughter is married to the
          doctor here.

                    VILLAGE WOMAN
          Dr. Jamshidpour?

                    YOUNG MAMANJOON
              (surprised)
          Yes. How did you know?

                    VILLAGE WOMAN
          He is the only doctor for the
          entire region. A great honor for
          your daughter. Is she the first or
          second wife?
                                                        73.


It takes a moment for Young Mamanjoon to realize what she is
being asked; what she is being told.

                    YOUNG MAMANJOON
          What?

                    VILLAGE WOMAN
          Are you the mother of the young
          bride, or of the old nurse?


INT./EXT. BUS - RURAL IRANIAN ROAD - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

A Young Mamanjoon, takes the bus from a snowy village station
to the metropolis of old Shiraz, trying to contain her anger.

                    MAMANJOON (V.O.)
          First or second wife? We didn't
          give our daughter to your dad so he
          could betray us. What was he trying
          to do, start a medieval Harem?


EXT. ALLEYWAYS - SHIRAZ - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Mamanjoon walks at a brisk pace with her bag in tow.
Her anger now has a clarity and purpose.

Their neighbors gossip.

                    MODERN WOMEN
          A scandal in the making.

                    MODERN MAN
          What humiliation!

                    MODERN WOMAN
          I can't believe it.

                    YOUNG BOY
          You'd think since he's an educated
          doctor, it would be different.

                    RELIGIOUS WOMAN
          Men will be men. Even modern ones.


EXT. FAMILY HOME - SHIRAZ - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

BABAJOON, a Persian Pablo Neruda complete with cap, sits at
his desk, writing a poem in a book with an ink pen.
                                                         74.


                    MAMANJOON (V.O.)
          There's a time for poetry. And a
          time for action. Your grandfather's
          book would have to wait.

Young Mamanjoon bursts in.

                    BABAJOON
          What's wrong?


INT./EXT. JEEP - MOUNTAIN PASS - IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Mamanjoon, their son MOHSEN (21, Persian Clark Gable),
and Babajoon ride a Jeep on a treacherous mountain pass.

                    MAMANJOON (V.O.)
          Your grandfather and uncle did what
          any respectable family would do
          when their daughter's husband has
          decided to live like an animal.


EXT. VILLAGE HOME - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

It's like the old westerns.

As a cloud of dust settles - Young Mamanjoon, Mohsen, and
Babajoon appear. They load their pistols and pound on the
front door.


INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

The three vigilantes enter.

                    BABANJOON
          Ali Reza. Come here!

Young Shirin, seven months pregnant, stands in the corner.

Mohsen and Babajoon wave guns and yell at Young Ali Reza.

                    YOUNG ALI REZA
          What's going on? Why you creating a
          scandal?

                    BABANJOON
          I hear you took a second wife. You
          damn peasant. Say goodbye to your
          life.

Young Shirin is overwhelmed. In SLOW-MOTION: Villagers gather
and whisper. Angry faces of her father, brother, and husband.
                                                        75.


The pressure is incredibly intense, and building, until ....

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
              (screams)
          STOP IT.

The entire room freezes. Literally frozen in time and space.
Young Shirin speaks out of time, directly to us, with an
understanding beyond her years. She talks of a future she
already knows.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN (CONT'D)
          I came to America. I left
          everything behind. Everyone I knew,
          everything familiar. My food, my
          family, my language. So I could
          narrate my own story. Control my
          own destiny. Take care of my own
          life. Not have the gossips rule my
          life. Now, I will tell my own
          story.


EXT. FAMILY HOME - SHIRAZ - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

A group of OLDER WOMEN pull an INFANT from a weeping AUNT
MAHDIS (17).

                    YOUNG SHIRIN (V.O.)
          I wasn't going to be like my Aunt
          Mahdis. Aunt Mahdis was divorced at
          17. According to the law, the
          custody went to the father.


EXT. FAMILY HOME - COURTYARD - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Aunt Mahdis is being taught to ride a bicycle by Young
Shirin's father, Babajoon. Young Shirin watches her from the
courtyard.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN (V.O.)
          She nearly went mad with grief. Her
          brother, my father, tried to cheer
          her up. He gave her a bicycle and
          he taught her to ride.

SHOTS of Aunt Mahdis riding in all hours, in all weathers.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN (V.O.)
          Once she learned, she never
          stopped. Day and night, rain and
          sun, winter and summer. Aunt Mahdis
          would be pedaling.
                                                         76.


INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin continues to address the camera directly.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          I am not going to ever ride a damn
          bicycle. And I am not going to
          divorce this man. I understand him
          better than even he knows himself.
          Ours was a different story. It
          would have a different ending. I
          would make sure of that.


EXT. CEMETERY - SHIRAZ - A VERY LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Very Young ALI REZA (11) watches his father lowered into the
ground, surrounded by his young MOTHER and eight SIBLINGS.

                     YOUNG SHIRIN (V.O.)
          When a boy's father dies, something
          changes in his soul. He has no male
          role model. He doesn't know what
          kind of man he can become. My
          husband's father died helping the
          sick. After he died of yellow
          fever, his son became the man of
          the house.


INT. BOOKSTORE - SHIRAZ - A VERY LONG TIME AGO - NIGHT

Very Young Ali Reza in a lightning storm with a uniform that
is too big for him, a NIGHTSTICK in one trembling hand.

PULL OUT to reveal shelves upon shelves of valuable books.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN (V.O.)
          His responsibility was to protect
          the books. Books were valuable
          then, and needed protection.

A CRASH of thunder.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN (V.O.)
          He protected the books, and the
          books protected him.

                    VERY YOUNG ALI REZA
          I'm not afraid. I'm not afraid. I'm
          not afraid.

Very Young Ali Reza grips the nightstick.
                                                         77.


Time has passed. Young Ali Reza (20s), now older, looks out
the same window in a different rainstorm. He pulls a book off
the shelf to calm himself.

                    YOUNG ALI REZA
          I'm not afraid.


INT. CONCERT HALL - SHIRAZ - A LONG TIME AGO - NIGHT

Young Ali Reza in his early 20s, Young Shirin in her early
teens look up in awe at the marquee: GOOGOOSH IN CONCERT.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN (V.O.)
          When we married, I was 13 and he
          22. But inside he was still a boy.
          He had been to medical school, but
          I was his intellectual equal.

Indeed, Young Ali Reza has the same mannerisms as the child
he once was. He hands TWO TICKETS to the USHER.

                    YOUNG ALI REZA
          Googoosh is your age.

Young Shirin is impressed that a girl her age could be
afforded so much attention and control of her life.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          I've never been to a concert.

Young Shirin and Young Ali Reza look like hicks compared to
the ultra-sophisticated concert goers from the city, smoking
cigarettes and wearing the latest western fashions.

Young Shirin unwraps a sandwich and shares it with Young Ali
Reza as GOOGOOSH, Iran's Barbara Streisand, takes the stage.

Young Ali Reza and Young Shirin are swept away by the music.


EXT. VILLAGE - TURKISH-IRANIAN BORDER - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin and Young Ali Reza ride into the town on donkeys
led by two MEN from the village; other donkeys carry their
bags toward their new home.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN (V.O.)
          After we married we were sent to a
          remote village.

The doctor and his wife are in modern dress and the villagers
are in colorful tribal clothes.
                                                        78.


                    YOUNG SHIRIN (V.O.)
          When we arrived, it was like they
          had never seen a doctor.

This may be the biggest event the village has ever seen; the
VILLAGERS crowd around the doctor, offering gifts and asking
impromptu medical advice they've been waiting months for.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN (V.O.)
          But they really knew how to cook.

The women set up a delectable feast on a traditional
tablecloth on the floor. The doctor and his wife are at the
head of the feast. Guests of honor.

Young Shirin and Young Ali Reza eat with relish. NURSE ROYA
(36) joins them at the meal, sitting next to Young Shirin. A
friendly smile between the two women. Instantly, Young Shirin
takes a liking to Nurse Roya.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN (V.O.)
          In the village, I only made one
          friend.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          What's your name?

                    NURSE ROYA
          Roya.


INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Ali Reza sees an unending line of patients in a
rudimentary clinic. All of them have different ailments, and
each of them has brought a gift for the new doctor.

Young Ali Reza is utterly overwhelmed. He wouldn't be able to
handle it if not for a very calm NURSE ROYA, who prepares the
vaccinations and injects a separate line of patients.

Young Shirin takes some initiative and restocks the supplies
they have brought with them. Nurse Roya is extra kind to
Young Shirin.

                    NURSE ROYA
              (to Shirin)
          Shirin, let me show you how to do
          injections.

She hands Young Shirin a needle.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          I don't know how to.
                                                         79.


                    NURSE ROYA
          That's why I'm going to teach you.
          I've prepared this. Make sure
          there's no air in it. You take her
          arm like this. Ready? Give it a
          try. Okay. First you pull up her
          sleeve.


INT. VILLAGE HUT - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Ali Reza frantically studies a pile of medical books.
Young Shirin brings him a tea. She has a baby bump.

                    YOUNG ALI REZA
          We never learned this stuff in
          medical school.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          You'll learn.

                    YOUNG ALI REZA
          What if I kill someone? I just
          graduated, they think I'm a real
          doctor.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          You are a real doctor. Not only
          real, but a great doctor.

                    YOUNG ALI REZA
              (smiles weakly)
          Thanks for encouraging me. Do we
          have any sugar?


INT. NURSE ROYA'S HOME - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

A timid KNOCK. Nurse Roya puts down her book of Forugh
Farakhzad's poems, turns down the radio, and opens the door.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Could I borrow some sugar?

                    NURSE ROYA
          Of course, come in.

Nurse Roya wraps sugar cubes and cookies into a cloth.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
              (re: the music)
          I love this song.
                                                           80.


                    NURSE ROYA
          Googoosh is amazing.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          We heard her in concert.

                    NURSE ROYA
          Lucky you. Let's have a tea
          together.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          My husband is waiting.

                    NURSE ROYA
          Just a quick tea.

Young Shirin smiles and sits at the table.

                    NURSE ROYA (CONT'D)
          Sugar? Sweet like your name.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Lucky you. We don't have a radio at
          home.

                    NURSE ROYA
          We're friends now. Come listen to
          the radio, even if I'm not home.
          Music is good for the baby.

                       YOUNG SHIRIN
          Hopefully.

Young Shirin instinctively rubs her belly and Nurse Roya
hands her the cloth of sugar and sweets.

                    NURSE ROYA
          If you have any questions about
          pregnancy or birth control...don't
          be embarrassed. It'll stay between
          us.

Young Shirin takes this in.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          I wish I could continue my studies.

                    NURSE ROYA
          You still can.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          No, it's too late.
                                                         81.


                    NURSE ROYA
          I was 30 when I went back to
          school. It wasn't late for me.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          How old are you?

                    NURSE ROYA
          36.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
              (surprised)
          You're older than my mother.

                    NURSE ROYA
              (smiling)
          You see? It's never too late.


EXT. VILLAGE HOME - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY


TITLE: TWO YEARS LATER

Young Shirin and Toddler SHIVAZ (18 months old) ride into the
village in the back of a Jeep driven by the KATKHODAH
(village chief).

The village women greet her like a returning queen, showering
her with gifts and flowers.

She is visibly pregnant.


EXT. SMALL MARKET - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin approaches a stall.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          A small jug of milk and three eggs.

A VILLAGE WOMAN brings her the goods.

                    VILLAGE WOMAN
              (of the unborn baby)
          You're carrying high. You'll have a
          girl.

Young Shirin's eyes light up; this woman has given voice to
her secret hope.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Do you think so?
                                                          82.


The village woman laughs kindly and Young Shirin smiles
innocently.


INT. VILLAGE HOME - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Ali Reza gulps down the last of his tea and walks to
the door without kissing his wife or young son.

                    YOUNG SHIRN
          You won't believe how much Shiraz
          has changed. It's amazing. Hasn't
          Shivaz gotten so big? Kids grow up
          fast, right?

                    YOUNG ALI REZA
          I have to go, I'll be back tonight.

He leaves and darkness descends. She has to fight it.

Young Shirin puts Toddler Shivaz in a little crib, then goes
into her suitcase and wraps a small gift with paper and
twine.


EXT. VILLAGE HOME - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin walks the short distance to Nurse Roya's
cottage.


INT. NURSE ROYA'S HOME - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin enters the empty home.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Roya?

She places the gift atop the radio, which she turns on.

Music melts all of her cares away, makes her feel in the
middle of life. She dances, holding her swollen belly like a
dancing partner.


EXT. SMALL MARKET - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin speaks to the village woman at the market.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Have you seen Roya lately?

                    VILLAGE WOMAN
          I spit on her.
                                                           83.


                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Why?

                    VILLAGE WOMAN
          You will shine pure. Even if that
          bitch tries to drag you into dirt,
          she can't. You're beautiful. You're
          pure.

Young Shirin doesn't want to hear any more but a seed is
planted.


INT. VILLAGE HOME - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - NIGHT

Young Shirin feeds Toddler Shivaz and watches her husband eat
in silence. He won't look at her.

He finishes and puts on his coat.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Won't you come to bed?

                    YOUNG ALI REZA
          I have to go. I have a patient.

As soon as he closes the door Young Shirin puts Shivaz down
in his bed. She follows her husband into the dark night.


INT./EXT. NURSE ROYA'S HOME - RURAL IRAN - NIGHT

Young Shirin spies her husband enter.

Through the small window, Young Shirin can see her husband
tending to Nurse Roya - taking her pulse.

He pulls up her shirt and listens to her big belly. Shirin is
surprised to see Nurse Roya pregnant. She got married and
didn't tell her?

Her husband is checking on a patient, Young Shirin thinks
maybe her fears were unfounded...

Until Roya's hand caresses Young Ali Reza's head. He smiles
in a way he never does at home, and leans in to kiss Nurse
Roya. Young Shirin is in shock.

She stumbles back in the moonlit path toward her house.
                                                          84.


EXT. WELL - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAWN

Young Shirin stands above the well alone. She starts shaking
with sobs. Her tears drop into the well.

She prepares to throw herself in. End the pain, end the
humiliation. End it all.

But in the distance she hears a CRY: her son. She looks back
toward her house, without even thinking. Then back at the
well.


INT. NURSE ROYA'S   HOME - RURAL IRAN - FLASHBACK

Young Shirin dances and speaks to her pregnant belly.

                    SHIRIN
          I promise, one day we will dance
          together.


EXT. WELL - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAWN

Young Shirin can't follow through with it. She climbs down
from the well.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          I'm sorry. I promise to be
          stronger. I'll make myself
          stronger.

Her hands shaking, she walks back toward the house, toward
the screams of her sobbing son.


EXT. VILLAGE HOME - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin holds her son close to her pregnant belly. Both
mother and son are traumatized, and cling to each other as if
they both sense how close they came to losing each other.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
              (whispers to her son)
          Sweetie, don't be afraid. I'll be
          back for you.

She hands Toddler Shivaz over to the village woman.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN (CONT'D)
          I can't stay here anymore. Please
          take care of my son.
                                                        85.


                    VILLAGE WOMAN
          Be careful, it's a dangerous
          journey.


EXT. MOUNTAINS - RURAL IRAN - A LONG TIME AGO - DAWN

A GUIDE leads Young Shirin on a donkey.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          We can't turn back.


INT. BUS - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin has made it to the bus. Her fellow passengers
are wildly diverse: people in hijab, village people in
colorful clothes, Persians in western clothes, and even an
American HIPPIE with a large backpack next to him on the
seat.

A small trickle of BLOOD runs down her leg.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
              (touching her belly)
          Hold on a little longer.


INT. CITY HOSPITAL - SHIRAZ - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

A nurse escorts Young Shirin through the chaos of a modern
hospital in an almost-modern country...

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Help me, my baby's coming.


INT. CITY HOSPITAL - DELIVERY ROOM - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

...into an austere delivery room. A young OB/GYN examines her
and frowns. Shirin starts to bleed. Sweat beads on her
forehead. She is in excruciating pain, but cannot, or will
not scream. The blood pours out of her. Spills out under the
door...

                    OB/GYN
          The baby is stuck. Your hips are
          narrow. I need you to push hard. I
          need your help. Okay? Push. Push
          harder. Push harder! It's a girl.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Let me see her.
                                                        86.


The nurse brings Shirin the dead child. Young Shirin strokes
her thick black hair.

                    OB/GYN
          I'm sorry, she didn't survive.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          My sweet, beautiful girl. Arezoo.
          My love, your name will be Arezoo.


INT. CITY HOSPITAL - PATIENT ROOM - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Mamanjoon and Young Shirin's Aunt Mahdis walk into the
hospital room. Young Shirin is still holding the dead baby.

                    YOUNG MAMANJOON
          Shirin darling, enough. Give her to
          me. Mahdis, take her for burial.

Something about Aunt Mahdis gives Shirin the strength to let
her daughter go. Young Mamanjoon takes the dead baby outside.
Shirin's shirt is wet with milk and she falls asleep.


INT. CITY HOSPITAL - PATIENT ROOM - A LONG TIME AGO - DAY

Young Shirin wakes to the sound of WHISPERING in the doorway.
There's a commotion; and the sound of a newborn WAIL.

Young Ali Reza comes in. He checks her chart and her IV. And
sits in a shamed silence.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Our daughter had beautiful black
          hair.

                    YOUNG ALI REZA
          I'm so sorry. Forgive me.

Young Shirin says nothing.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Why should I?

                    YOUNG ALI REZA
          For your son. For Shivaz.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Enough.
                                                        87.


                    YOUNG ALI REZA
          I'll take you some place far from
          here. Far from gossip. We'll go to
          America. But I need your help.

Young Ali Reza leaves and comes back with a NEW BORN BABY.

                      YOUNG SHIRIN
          What?

The baby is crying.

                    YOUNG ALI REZA
          His name is Vahid. Roya died in
          childbirth.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Never mention her name in my
          presence. Do you understand?

                    YOUNG ALI REZA
          Vahid needs a mother. He won't take
          formula.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
          Have you no shame to ask me this?
              (choking back a sob)
          That's my daughter's milk.

                    YOUNG ALI REZA
          This child is innocent. He's
          suffering, have mercy.

A profound silence.

The baby cries ferociously. Young Ali Reza does his best to
console him. Young Shirin has sympathy for the baby.

Young Shirin extends her arms. Young Ali Reza places the baby
in her arms. She pulls out her breast. She breastfeeds. As
she feeds the baby, she cries tears of sorrow that drop onto
the baby's face.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN (V.O.)
              (in Persian)
          I always wanted a daughter to talk
          to. One day, many years from this
          day, I would give birth to her. But
          when she grew up, something strange
          happened. I couldn't talk anymore.

INSERT: Adult Shirin smokes silently against a taxi cab in
the 1980s NYC.
                                                        88.


                    YOUNG SHIRIN (V.O.)
          When we were together I was silent.
          I needed to be silent.

INSERT: Adult Shirin sits silently next to teenage Leila in
1990s NJ.

INSERT: Young Shirin sits silently at the top of the mountain
in Rural Iran.

                    YOUNG SHIRIN
              (direct to camera)
          My silence was my strength. It was
          me keeping control of my story. A
          way of dealing with the sadness,
          and not being touched by it.

Young Shirin lifts her eyes and looks right into the lens of
the camera. Right into the audience.


INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - EXAM ROOM - PRESENT - DAY

Leila, 8 months pregnant, waits on an examination table. A
TECHNICIAN waits nearby.

                     LEILA
              (to camera)
          I inherited that from my mother.
          The strength of silence. Pain can't
          touch you if you don't talk about
          it. Right?

Maximillian enters.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          So sorry. I'm so sorry I'm late.

                    LEILA
          Oh great, the sperm donor's here,
          we can start now.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          I'm Max, I'm not the sperm donor.
          We're dating. Well, we're not
          dating, we're...it's complicated.

                    TECHNICIAN
          Uh...can we begin?

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Yeah, yeah. Yes, of course.
                                                        89.


                    TECHNICIAN
              (to Leila)
          Lay down, please.

                    LEILA
          Okay.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Can I help you?

                    LEILA
          Haven't you caused enough problems?

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Yeah. Okay.

Leila watches as the technician photographs the baby.
Maximillian looks at the screen, awestruck. Leila looks at
his child like awe, she's not sure what to feel.

                    TECHNICIAN
          The head size is normal.
          Appendages, limbs, and feet are
          normal. Most importantly is the
          heart. Heart is looking...normal.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Wow! This is totally amazing. I was
          thinking what if we kept dating?

The technician tries not to listen to their conversation.

                    LEILA
          Were we dating? I thought we just
          fucked once.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Yeah, I mean, that's the most
          awkward thing, right? Now the
          sexual tension is out of the way,
          we can actually go on a date and
          find out if we like each other. Do
          you know what I mean? It's worth a
          try, right?

                    LEILA
          Um.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Do you like dumplings?

                    LEILA
          I mean, who doesn't like dumplings?
                                                        90.


                    TECHNICIAN
          I like dumplings.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          I, yeah, I mean...

The technician has seen weird shit, this makes the top ten.


INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Leila and Maximillian eat piles of dumplings. What starts as
an awkward dinner slowly becomes warmer, and more connected.
They laugh and connect. Leila is opening up.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
              (eating)
          Oh my god, that's amazing. I'm kind
          of a big deal in the dumpling
          scene. It's kind of embarrassing,
          but, um, I'm the dumpling king.

                    LEILA
          The dumpling king?

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Mhm, yeah, dumpling king.

                    LEILA
          Is this self-proclaimed or they
          named you the dumpling --

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          No, no, no. There's a guy, he plays
          a trumpet for me every time I come
          in the shop.

                    LEILA
          Really?

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Yeah. I get everything for free.

                    LEILA
          I really believe that.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Mm. It's true.

Leila reaches for a piece of sushi.
                                                          91.


                    MAXIMILLIAN (CONT'D)
          No, you can't have sushi, sorry.
          Leila -- it's like -- I read a
          thing. World Health Organization.

                    LEILA
          Japanese people eat sushi when
          they're pregnant.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          You know, it's not -- I'm not
          making it up, like, I read
          something that --

                    LEILA
          You know what you should do? You
          should call the Japanese government
          and tell them about these serious
          allegations that you're claiming
          against pregnant women.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Okay, fine. Fine, fine, whatever,
          fine.

He hands Leila a piece of sushi. He drops it.

                    LEILA
          Way to go! It's okay, just give it
          to me.

She struggles to reach for it over her swollen belly.

                    LEILA (CONT'D)
          Okay, seriously?

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Yeah, yeah. You really want the
          best piece. You wanna try this.

                    LEILA
              (eating)
          Mm. Mhm.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          How good is that?


INT. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL - RECOVERY ROOM - DAY

DR. MANZANO is examining her patient. Ali Reza's hair turned
from salt and pepper to black.
                                                        92.


                    SHIRIN
          His hair, it is darker than in
          years!

                    DR. MANZANO
          He's getting twice the amount of
          oxygen he had than before. In
          Ancient Persia, cats whose hair
          changed in the night have magical
          powers!

                    ALI REZA
              (in Persian)
          Is she saying I became a cat?

                    SHIVAZ
          He's cleared for the wedding
          tomorrow, huh?

                    DR. MANZANO
          Unfortunately his magic hasn't
          helped his immune system. Sorry.

Ali Reza masks his disappointment by changing the subject and
spreading the guilt.

                    ALI REZA
          Leila isn't coming?

                    SHIRIN
          She's running some errands for me.
          She'll come by later.

                    ALI REZA
          Ok.

Vahid and NAZANIN (27) enter hand in hand. As is tradition
when a bride and groom enter a room, Ali Reza and Shirin
KELL, the Persian ululations.

                    SHIRIN
              (ululating)
          KELLELLEEELL-lEHHHLL-LEH

Ali Reza is moved by Vahid's recovery from addiction.

Ali Reza kisses both Vahid and Nazanin on the head. And he
whispers a Quranic prayer in each of their ears.

                    ALI REZA
          Congratulations. Congratulations on
          your wedding. You look good, Vahid.
                                                        93.


                    VAHID
          I'm better dad.

                    SHIRIN
          Get going to the bachelor party.

                     SHIVAZ
          Bachelor party!
               (to Nazanin)
          And for you, ladies night at the
          spa.

Everyone leaves - Shirin and Ali Reza are left alone.

                    ALI REZA
          Shirin darling, thank you...

                    SHIRIN
          It was a good thing. He found
          someone who would love him.

                    ALI REZA
          Will you forgive me?

                    SHIRIN
          This is not a time for that.

Ali Reza starts to cry.

                    ALI REZA
          I love you.

                     SHIRIN
          You've become so sentimental, like
          the Americans. I have a lot of
          work. Tomorrow is the wedding. See
          you later.

Ali Reza is left with tears in his eyes, a lifetime of love
and regret.


INT. BANQUET HALL - GROOM'S PREP ROOM - VAHID'S WEDDING DAY

The rest of the Jamshidpour siblings, including Leila, get
ready in the cramped room. Chaos is a kind word for it.

Leila fixes one of her brothers' cuff links.

                     LEILA
          Just hold on, stand still, it's
          really easy. You just pop it, just
          like this.
                                                        94.


She grabs a perfume bottle from Abbas.

                    LEILA (CONT'D)
          Seriously? I said stop. Put it
          down. Too bad Mamanjoon had to go
          back to Iran.

KNOCK-KNOCK. It's Maximillian, bearing a gift for Leila. The
brothers are intrigued but try not to eavesdrop.

                    ABBAS
              (in Persian)
          (Pasar Zeshtoo keya?) Who's the
          ugly guy?

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          They love the teeth.

                    BROTHERS
              (in Persian)
          (Pasar Zeshtoo amad) Mr. Ugly is
          here.

Maximillian awkwardly hands Leila a box.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          A corsage for the wedding.

                    LEILA
          How retro. Thanks.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          You like it?

                       LEILA
          Love it.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          You look beautiful.

                       LEILA
          Thank you.

                     MAXIMILLIAN
          I was thinking I could come by
          after the show.
              (beat)
          I mean if that's okay.

                    LEILA
              (pleased)
          Yeah. How many Jamshidpours can you
          stand at once?
                                                95.


                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Yeah, we'll see. It will be a good
          opportunity to find out. Socially
          awkward dives into the deep end.

Leila laughs.

                    MAXIMILLIAN (CONT'D)
          I'm gonna go.

Maximillian kisses her on the cheek.

                    MAXIMILLIAN (CONT'D)
          Oh, uh, how do you say "goodbye" in
          Persian?

                    LEILA
          We mostly all were born in America,
          so we all speak English.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
          Yeah, right, I know. But, just, I
          don't know, I want to get into the
          culture.

                    LEILA
              (in Persian)
          (Khafeh Shoh) Shut up.

                    MAXIMILLIAN
              (in Persian)
          "(Khafeh Shoh)?" Shut up?

As he leaves, he calls out to the brothers:

                    MAXIMILLIAN (CONT'D)
              (in Persian)
          (Khafeh Shoh) SHUT UP! Everybody.
          (Khafeh Shoh) SHUT UP!

The brothers laugh.

                    BROTHERS
              (in Persian)
          (Khafeh Shoh) Shut up.

Maximillian leaves and the siblings laugh.

                    LEILA
          Don't tell him.

                    ABBAS
          The corsage, is it fake?
                                                        96.


She opens it and they all "Awwwww."

                    ABBAS (CONT'D)
          That's cute. He tried, you know?


INT. BANQUET HALL - BRIDE PREP ROOM - VAHID'S WEDDING DAY

Nazanin, in a slightly gaudy wedding gown, is doing her hair
and make up Persian style - loud and tacky. Vahid helps his
bride-to-be - it's a tender moment.

Shirin watches her and Vahid. Vahid is in a tuxedo for the
first time in his life, but it's a good look.

                    SHIRIN
              (in Persian)
          Vahid, I'm proud of you.

Vahid beams with pride and love, trying to repress his shame.

                    VAHID
          Thanks for everything you did for
          me, Mom.

                    SHIRIN
          See you in a minute.


INT. BANQUET HALL - GROOM'S PREP ROOM - VAHID'S WEDDING DAY

Back with Leila and her brothers.

                    LEILA
          No one came to my wedding with
          Elena.

                    SHIVAZ
          No one even told me you broke up
          with Elena. You know?

                    ABBAS
          Did you even have a wedding? I
          thought you registered at City Hall
          to get health insurance.

                    LEILA
          Okay, you're missing the point.

                    SHIVAZ
          Do you even believe in marriage?

                    LEILA
          You know, I have a lot of issues.
                                                          97.


                    ABBAS
          Maybe it's time to deal with some
          of them, sis.

                    SHIVAZ
          Yeah, for real.

                    LEILA
          I'm trying.

                    ABBAS
          Maybe it's also time to let go of
          some of that anger.

                    SHIVAZ
          If not for your own sake, then at
          least for your bambino. Just
          saying.

                    LEILA
          Thanks for the advice.

                    ABBAS
          What is "bambino"?


INT. BANQUET HALL - MAIN ROOM - VAHID'S WEDDING - NIGHT

It's Vahid's Persian wedding in NYC. The Persian wedding
banquet table with all the traditional elements, an
overabundance of Persian food, flowers, and all things gold.

We see all the characters from the family parties - they are
getting down to some Googoosh.

The whole family dancing. Even mother and daughter - it's a
moment of joy and connection.

Shirin dances with Vahid, until Nazanin cuts in to dance with
her new husband. Shirin moves to the sidelines and watches as
others dance with the couple at the center.

Leila approaches her mother, looking for a moment of
connection, seeing a chance to share what she knows about her
mother's struggles and her secret past.

                    LEILA
          Must have been hard to raise Vahid.

Shirin is disarmed for a moment: how much does Leila know?

                    SHIRIN
          I love my kids all the same.
                                                        98.


                    LEILA
          Yeah, but he was different, wasn't
          he?

This is way too close to home. Shirin knows how to change the
subject.

                    SHIRIN
          You and him were not that
          different. You both just had bad
          friends.

Leila takes the bait.

                    LEILA
              (snapping)
          Yeah. We're so similar. My friends
          forced me to get two Master's
          degrees while Vahid was living in a
          crackhouse.

Shivaz and Abbas have seen the trouble brewing and come to
the rescue.

                    ABBAS
              (to Leila)
          Hey Lululollipop, I know you can
          dance!

Abbas pulls her onto the dance floor, while Shivaz pulls his
mom out for a dance on the opposite side of the floor.

After the song is over, Leila slips away. From the corner of
the room, Leila watches her family and her mother - all
enjoying themselves. Even the black sheep is being
celebrated.

Leila keenly feels herself the outsider, as if all the years
of not fitting in have been crystallized in this moment.


EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS

Leila leaves the wedding in a haze of emotion, not even
caring where she's walking. A deep physical sensation cuts
through her emotions: she realizes she's in labor.


INT. HOSPITAL - LATER

Leila walks into the hospital alone, up to a NERVOUS NURSE.
                                                        99.


                    LEILA
          I just snuck out of my brother's
          wedding. I think I'm in labor.


INT. BANQUET HALL - MAIN ROOM - VAHID'S WEDDING - LATE NIGHT

It's the end of the night. All the brothers, are extremely
drunk except for Vahid...

                    SHIRIN
          Have you seen Leila?

                     MAJID
          Leila? Um, I don't know...paging
          Lululollipop! I can't see her, Mom,
          I'm sorry.

                    SHIRIN
              (to Shivaz)
          Have you seen your sister?

                       SHIVAZ
          Who?

                    SHIRIN
          Have you seen Leila?

                       SHIVAZ
          No.

                    SHIRIN
              (to Abbas)
          Have you seen -- have you seen
          Leila?

                       ABBAS
          No. Sorry.


INT. HOSPITAL - NURSE'S STATION - LATE NIGHT

The nervous nurse gives Leila's file to a CALM NURSE.

                    CALM NURSE
          No one came in with her?

                    NERVOUS NURSE
          No, I don't think so.

                    CALM NURSE
          Is there a next of kin?

The nervous nurse is too flustered to remember.
                                                       100.


                    NERVOUS NURSE
              (checking the form)
          Her mother.

                    CALM NURSE
          Okay. Let's call her mother.


INT. BANQUET HALL - MAIN ROOM - VAHID'S WEDDING - LATE NIGHT

Shirin answers her phone.

                    SHIRIN
          Hello? No -- I'm sorry I can't
          hear.


EXT. STREET - LATE NIGHT

Shirin, in full wedding garb, tries in vain to hail a cab.

                    SHIRIN
          Taxi! TAXI!

Shirin gives up and starts running, � la "When Harry Met
Sally." She stops completely out of breath and desperate.

                    SHIRIN (CONT'D)
              (in Persian)
          Imam Zaman, help!

This time Imam Zaman APPEARS in the form of a Tuk Tuk driver!
And again we can't see his face.

                    SHIRIN (CONT'D)
          Cornell Hospital please.

It's surreal - Shirin in a Tuk-Tuk thru the NYC streets.

                    SHIRIN (CONT'D)
              (to camera)
          Imam Zaman truly comes in the most
          unexpected forms.

Shirin sends a group text on her flip phone, takes forever.


INT. HOSPITAL - DELIVERY ROOM - LATE NIGHT

Leila is in stirrups, DOCTOR ANAHITA attends.
                                                       101.


INT. BANQUET HALL - MAIN ROOM - VAHID'S WEDDING - LATE NIGHT

The Jamshidpour brothers' eight phones all BEEP
simultaneously with an incoming text message. They all bolt
from the room.


INT. HOSPITAL - DELIVERY ROOM - LATE NIGHT

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Okay, I see the crown, she's got
          beautiful black hair. Okay?
          Alright, come on, let's push. Push,
          honey, come on. Okay, Leila? Deep
          breaths, okay?


INT. BELASCO THEATER - HEDWIG'S DRESSING ROOM - LATE NIGHT

Hedwig, in full garb, is reapplying mascara between scenes.
His cell phone BUZZES. He looks at it.

                      HEDWIG
          Oh shit!


INT. HOSPITAL - DELIVERY ROOM - NIGHT

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Listen to me, you got to channel
          your anger, okay? You gotta push it
          out.

                    LEILA
          I'm not angry! I'm not angry!

Leila silently white-knuckle her way through a contraction.


EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Seven drunk groomsmen and an even drunker bride run to the
hospital, led by the only sober people: Maximillian (in full
Hedwig drag) and the groom, Vahid. Hedwig's STILETTO gets
caught in a GRATE.

Vahid pulls him free and tries to give the insane impromptu
marathon some direction.


INT. HOSPITAL - DELIVERY ROOM - NIGHT

                    LEILA
          Do I look angry?
                                                          102.


                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          You look a little angry, that's
          okay. That's okay. Push.

                      LEILA
          I can't.

Shirin rushes into the room to be at her daughter's side.

                      LEILA (CONT'D)
          Mom. Mom.

                    SHIRIN
          I'm here. I'm here.

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Leila, the baby is stuck in the
          canal, okay? Your hips are too
          narrow. I need you to push. Please.

                    SHIRIN
          Leila, listen to me, I need you to
          scream as loud as you can so you
          can push. Please push.

Leila doesn't want to.

                    LEILA
          Is the baby going to die?

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          I need you to concentrate, okay?


INT. HOSPITAL - MATERNITY LOBBY - NIGHT

The eight brothers, the bride, and Hedwig arrive at the
hospital.

                    HEDWIG
          We're looking for Leila
          Jamshidpour, she's in labor, do you
          know which room she's in?

                    NERVOUS NURSE
          Is one of you the father?

                    HEDWIG
          I'm the father.

                      NERVOUS NURSE
          Oh lordy.
                                                        103.


                      CALM NURSE
          Room 345.

                      BROTHERS
          Room 345!


INT. HOSPITAL - DELIVERY ROOM - NIGHT

Leila, drenched in sweat, almost giving up.

                    SHIRIN
          Push, Leila, push.

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          You're both in danger, I need you
          to concentrate.

                    SHIRIN
          Scream as loud as you can so you
          can push. You can do it. Come on,
          honey.

Hedwig and the brothers enter the room. They cheer in
encouragement. Leila gives a small scream.

                      LEILA
          Damn it.

This time Leila opens her mouth and lets it all out.

                    LEILA (CONT'D)
              (in Persian)
          AHHHHHHH!!!! MOTHERFUCKER!!!!!!

The scream traverses generations of women, and literally
SHAKES the walls. And a baby is born...

But there is silence. The room itself holds its breath.
Anahita holds the baby upside down and slaps its behind.
Then...

                    BABY
          WAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHH!

The scream has been passed to the next generation.

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Aw, you have a beautiful baby girl!

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA (CONT'D)
          Dad, do you want to cut the cord?
                                                       104.


                    MAJID
          Just like in the movies.

Hedwig cuts the cord.

                    HEDWIG
          Just like this?

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Yep.

The baby is put on Leila's chest. She's beautiful. It's one
of those movie moments.

                    HEDWIG
          You're a mom. You're all uncles!

                    SHIRIN
          And I am a grandmother.

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Alright, the show's over, gentlemen
          and lady. Thank you, thank you.

                    MAJID
          I'm medically trained, do you need
          me to --

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Alright, thank you, bye.

They all leave.

                    HEDWIG
          Leila, I'll be just outside.

                    MAJID
          Great job, Lululollipop.

                    HEDWIG
              (in Persian)
          (Khafeh Shoh.) Shut up. Shut up.

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Great job, Leila.

The overwhelming scent of body juices and antiseptics is too
much for her: Leila vomits all over the baby.

                    SHIRIN
          Oh.

                    DOCTOR ANAHITA
          Let me get her cleaned.
                                                       105.


                    LEILA
              (to the camera)
          This is not how it happens in the
          movies.

                    SHIRIN
          It is okay, honey. It's very
          natural. Honey, what did you eat?


INT. HOSPITAL - MATERNITY LOBBY - NIGHT

The entire wedding party and Hedwig are passed out.


INT. HOSPITAL - DELIVERY ROOM - NIGHT

Only Shirin is awake, looking out the window.

Leila has the baby in her arms. The vomit is cleaned up. The
nurse walks in with a clipboard.

                    CALM NURSE
          So, we are doing the birth
          certificate today. I already have
          Hedwig's information. So, we just
          need a name. What shall we call
          her?

Leila looks into her baby's eyes, she caresses the baby's
long hair.

                    LEILA
          Her name is Arezoo.

Shirin is shocked. Of all the names: Arezoo?!

                    CALM NURSE
          Arezoo. Oh, what a beautiful name.

                    SHIRIN
          Why did you choose that name?

                    LEILA
          She's just Arezoo. Would you like
          to hold her?

                    SHIRIN
          Yes.

Shirin holds baby Arezoo - who looks shockingly like her own
Arezoo. A baby with long black hair, alive and well. A
miracle. Or a reincarnation. Or time folding on itself. Tears
well up in Shirin's eyes.
                                                       106.


For the first time, she has let the full weight of sadness
and joy into her heart. She looks at her only daughter.

                    SHIRIN (CONT'D)
          Leila. I -- I am sorry. I love you.

                    LEILA
          Don't be so American.

                    SHIRIN
              (to the baby)
          Arezoo!
              (in Persian)
          My love.




Persian Version, The
Writers :   Maryam Keshavarz
Genres :   Comedy  Drama  Romance
User Comments








