



                          PRISCILLA



                          Written by

                        Sofia Coppola



                    Based on Elvis & Me by

               Priscilla Presley & Sandra Harmon




INT. GRACELAND - DAY

Close on a young girl's feet, with perfect candy red polish,
walking over pink shag carpet. Her feet sink into the plush
shag with every step.

                                                     CUT TO:

EXTREME CLOSE UPS on:

Black liquid eyeliner being carefully applied.

Jet black hair being teased, a cloud of hairspray,

Fingernails being painted coral,

MAIN TITLE in cursive appears over satin:

                       PRISCILLA

Titles continue, intercut with e xtreme close ups, fragments
of teenage Priscilla and Graceland.

                                                     CUT TO:


EXT. EAGLE'S CLUB - DAY

Reflections off the window of the 50's style American club.

Some soldiers outside.

Title: US Army base, West Germany, 1959


INT. EAGLE'S CLUB - DAY

"Venus" by Frankie Avalon plays on the jukebox as we move in
on a soda shop counter where PRISCILLA, 14, with her back to
us, sits on her own, doing homework.

A man in uniform approaches.

Priscilla slowly turns- Close on the pretty fresh-faced
brunette as she looks shyly over her shoulder up at the man
staring at her.

She's dressed like a typical `50s teen girl in ankle socks
and saddle shoes.

The man, TERRY, handsome in a uniform, late 20s, has a
friendly smile.
                    TERRY
          Hi. I'm Terry West, what's your
          name?

She looks up from her milkshake at him suspiciously.

                    PRISCILLA
          Priscilla Beaulieu.

                    TERRY
          I see you coming here a lot, is
          your family stationed here?

                    PRISCILLA
          Yes.

                    TERRY
          Where are you from?

                    PRISCILLA
          Uh Texas... my dad just transferred
          here in August.

                    TERRY
          That so? Well, how do you like
          Germany?

She shrugs.

                    TERRY (CONT'D)
          I book the entertainment here. My
          wife plays here som etimes.

She's not comfortable making conversation, she's been taught
not to talk to strangers.

                    PRISCILLA
          Neat.

                    TERRY
          Do you like Elvis Presley?

                    PRISCILLA
              (Giggles)
          Of course. Who doesn't?

                    TERRY
          Well, I'm a friend of his. My wife
          and I go to his house sometimes
          when he has people over. He's
          always glad to see folks from back
          home. We're going this weekend if
          you want to join.
Priscilla's eyebrows raise in disbelief, she looks away then
back at Terry, putting her guard up. She plays it cool.

                    PRISCILLA
              (nonchalant)
          Have to ask my parents.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. EAGLE'S CLUB - DUSK

Close on Priscilla's face walking home, thinking about
meeting Elvis. She smiles to herself, she can't believe it.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - GERMANY - EVENING

                     MRS. BEAULIEU
          You wanna go with strangers to
          Elvi s Presley's house?

Priscilla sets the table, as her mom, ANN BEAULIEU, an
attractive homemaker, 40, gets dinner ready, and her father,
CAPTAIN BEAULIEU, all-American military man, 40's, sits at
the table.

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU
          Absolutely not.

                    PRISCILLA
          There'll be other people there too.
          It's the weekend - why can't I go?
          I'd be with Terry and his wife.

They don't budge.

                    PRISCILLA (CONT'D)
          There's nothing to do here.

She pouts and leaves.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. EAGLE'S CLUB - AFTERNOON

Mrs. and Captain Beaulieu sit at a booth with Priscilla and
her little brother, DON, 10. Terry, in uniform, comes up and
introduces himself.
                    TERRY
          Hello Captain, I'm Terry West.

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU
          Good to meet you, this is my wife,
          Ann.

Terry nods with a friendly smile.

                    TERRY
          Hi. I book the music here. My wife
          Carol and I are friends with Elvis,
          he's having people over and your
          daughter's welcome to join us. She
          said I'd have to ask you.

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU
          I see...what unit are you in?

                    TERRY
          Stationed under Sergeant Bryant,
          Sir.

Close on Priscilla watching the men talk.

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU
          Bryant, huh? Still tough as nails?

                      TERRY
          (Chuckles) Yes, sir. If you have
          any tips...

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU
          No, there's no shortcuts, son.

                    TERRY
          Well, your daughter'd be well
          chaperoned by my wife and myself.
          The house is just off base. I could
          pick her up at 8:30 and have her
          back by any time you say, sir.

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU
          We'll discuss it.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. PRISCILLA'S ROOM - G ERMANY - EVENING

Mrs. Beaulieu picks up things as she talks to Priscilla in
her room. Priscilla stands at her small closet, trying to
pick out what to wear.
Priscilla looks at the dresses in her closet, they seem all
wrong.

                    MRS. BEAULIEU
          That one's pretty.

                    PRISCILLA
          It's my Easter dress, I can't wear
          this.

                    MRS. BEAULIEU
          I hope you have fun tonight. I'm
          sorry it's been so hard on you here
          but I know you'll make some new
          friends soon.

                    PRISCILLA
          I don't want new friends.

                    MRS. BEAULIEU
          I know.


INT. CAR - GERMANY - NIGHT

We see headlights on the dark road at night. P riscilla sits
in the backseat looking ahead past Terry and CAROL, 20s.


EXT. ELVIS'S HOUSE - BAD NAUHEIM - NIGHT

She looks out as they pull up to a house with a group of
teenage girls waiting by a fence. A sign on the fence reads:

Autogramme Zwischen - Autographs between 7:00 and 8:00 P.M.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. ELVIS'S HOUSE - BAD NAUHEIM - NIGHT

The front door opens and VERNON, Elvis' father, a tall
attractive m an with grey hair, greets them and ushers them
in.

We hear Brenda Lee's "Sweet Nothin's" on the stereo down the
hall as we follow Priscilla with Terry and his wife.

Vernon leads them down the hall into the living room, where
the music is coming from.

Priscilla stands in her sailor dress, feeling like a kid.
She looks at the drab living room filled with people, and
spots ELVIS right away who's lounging on a big chair with a
cigar, his leg thrown over a side. He's 24, with his GI
haircut, surrounded by his buddies and some girls his age.

Terry heads over to Elvis.

                    ELVIS
          Hey, man, how are you? Good to see
          you. And who do we have here?

He stands up.

                    TERRY
          Uh, Elvis, this is Priscilla
          Beaulieu. I'm gonna go fin d Carol.

Priscilla stands speechless, staring at him.

Close up: Priscilla and Elvis shake hands.

Priscilla stands there looking at him, he smiles.

                    ELVIS
          Hey. Uh, would you like to have a
          seat?

Priscilla sits next to him and tries to remember to breathe.

                    ELVIS
          So, what are you doing over here?

                    PRISCILLA
          My dad's stationed at Wiesbaden.

                    ELVIS
          Where do you come from?

                    PRISCILLA
          Austin, Texas.

                    ELVIS
          Austin, hmmm ... Do you like it here?

She shrugs.

                     PRISCILLA
          It's ok.

                      ELVIS
              (chuckles)
          What... What are you, about a Junior
          or a Senior in High School?
Priscilla blushes.

                       PRISCILLA
             Ninth.

                       ELVIS
             Ninth. Ninth what?

                       PRISCILLA
             Grade.

                       ELVIS
             Ninth grade. Why, why you're just a
             baby!

He laughs.

                       PRISCILLA
                 (curtly)
             Thanks.

                       ELVIS
                 (laughing)
             Well, it seems the little girl has
             spunk.

He looks at her with his charming smile, and she gives in.

                       ELVIS
             I'll be right back.

Elvis smiles and goes over to the stand-up piano across the
room.

Priscilla glances around at the crowd in the room. A guy has
his arm around a girl, close to him.

Priscilla sees a poster of a sexy Brigitte Bardot, and feels
even more young and out of place.

Elvis plays a Jerry Lee Lewis song, hamming it up with
everyone's eyes on him.

Priscilla watches him across the room. The piano shakes as he
bangs it- a water glass on top scoots close to the edge.

Priscilla feels Elvis focused on her.

The glass moves closer to the edge as she watches. Elvis
looks at her and keeps going until the glass falls off just
as he catches it. He looks to Priscilla.
People laugh and cheer, he's putting on a show for her. She
can't believe it.

                                                     CUT TO:


INT. HIGH SCHOOL - GERMANY - DAY

Priscilla leans on her hand dreaming off in class.

                    TEACHER (O.S.)
          Can anyone tell me the four major
          food groups? There's meat, dairy,
          fruits and vegetables. They all
          make up the food pyramid.

                                                     CUT TO:


INT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - KITCHEN � DAY

Close up on Priscilla's back as she answers the ring ing
telephone.

                     PRISCILLA
          Hello?

                    TERRY
          Priscilla, it's Terry.

She's surprised.

                     PRISCILLA
          Oh, hi.

                    TERRY
          I just got a call from Elvis,
          asking if you could come over
          Friday.

                    PRISCILLA
          Really?! He wants to see me?

There's a pause as she goes mute - overwhelmed, her mind
churning, did she hear him right, what is she going to wear?

                    TERRY
          You want me to ask your father?

                    PRISCILLA
          They're not gonna let me go again.
                     TERRY
           Let me talk to him.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. CAR - GERMANY - NIGHT

Priscilla sits in the back seat, hair brushed and neat, full
of anticipation on the dark road. The car slows down and we
feel her nerves and excitement as they arrive.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. ELVIS' HOUSE - BAD NAUHEIM - NIGHT

The crowd all hangs out as Elvis finishes a song, friends are
around, smoking cigarettes.

Priscilla watches as one of the girls p asses by Elvis, and
touches his shoulder in a familiar way. She feels a sting.
Elvis' GRANDMA, "Dodger" serves a platter of southern food.

                    ELVIS
          Dodger, baby, what would we do
          without you?! Priscilla, come here.
          This here is, uh, this is my
          grandma, Dodger.

                     PRISCILLA
          Hello.

                    ELVIS
          When I was a kid, I hit a ball
          straight at her and she dodged it,
          so ever since then she's always...
          she's been Dodger...

Grand ma laughs.

                    DODGER
          Well you almost got a yourself a
          whippin'!

                    ELVIS
          So what are the kids back home
          listening to these days?

                    PRISCILLA
          Bobby Darrin, and Fabian...and you.
                       ELVIS
             Well, that's good, I thought they
             might've forgotten about me.

He smiles.

                          PRISCILLA
             No!

                       ELVIS
             What about you, you got a favorite
             song?

She smiles.

                       ELVIS
             What, you gonna make me guess?

                       PRISCILLA
                 (shyly)
             Heartbreak Hotel.

                       ELVIS
             The kids still like it, huh? Wow.

She nods. He looks around at all the people.

                         ELVIS
             Well... What do you say maybe we go
             somewhere more quiet?

She looks at him nervously.

                       ELVIS
             Would you come up to my room?

She looks at him in a panic.

                         ELVIS (CONT'D)
             You don't have to be scared, baby.
             I'd never do anything to harm you.
             I'm just... I really like talking to
             you.

Priscilla holds her breath. Flustered and confused, she looks
away.

She stares back into his eyes, then nods.

                          PRISCILLA
             All right.
                    ELVIS
          We just go up the stairs, it's
          gonna be the first door on your
          right. I'll meet you up there,
          okay?


INT. ELVIS' ROOM - GERMANY - NIGHT

Priscilla sits on a couch looking around the simple room in
the lamp light. Elvis' uniform hangs on a hook.

She wanders around, peeking at some letters by his bed- she
sees the name `Anita' on a few of them next to a lipstick
kiss.

The door opens, and she puts the letters down quickly,
standing awkwardly.

                    ELVIS
          So what else is going on back home?

                     PRISCILLA
          I don't think things have changed
          that much.

Priscilla reluctantly crosses over to him and sits down.

                     ELVIS
          It's really nice to talk to someone
          from home.

Priscilla looks at him, melting. She can't believe she's
alone with Elvis. Her palms are clammy, her heart is racing,
she tries to breath normally.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          And I know lots of girls here, but
          none of them are from the states.

She smiles at him.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          I wish my Mama could have met you.
          She passed on just last August. She
          would've really liked you.

He sighs, and looks troubled.

                    PRISCILLA
          I wish I could have met her.
                    ELVIS
          She was my whole world, my Mama...I
          talked to her every day...and now,
          Dee's got her grips on my daddy,
          he's under her spell. She's trying
          to turn him into something he's
          not... I don't know how I'm going
          to go back to Graceland without
          her.

Elvis is heartbroken. Priscilla listens with her whole heart.

He smiles at her with his sad eyes.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          That's the home that I bought for
          her. I just really miss her.

She looks at him, her eyes sweet with understanding.

He takes in the young beauty.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          I've been so homesick.

                    PRISCILLA
          I know. Me too.

Elvis and Priscilla are in profile, the glow of a warm lamp
behind them. He slowly leans in for her first kiss- "Crimson
and Clover" starts - E.C.U.- a sweet and romantic kiss. He
breaks away and looks at her- she is speechless. He smiles
and kisses her for ehead.

                    ELVIS
          It's time for you to get home,
          Little One.


INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - GERMANY

She walks down the hall in a daze, did that really happen? A
secret smile passes across her lips replaying the night
before. (slight slow motion)


INT. SCHOOL CLASSROOM - GERMANY

Priscilla dozes off in class.
INT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - GERMANY - EVENING

Priscilla argues with her parents in the kitchen as she
clears dishes.

                    PRISCILLA
          I'm not tired, I'm fine.

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU
          You can't keep going out like this.

                    MRS. BEAULIEU
          We thought it was gonna be one
          time.

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU
          If he wants to see you again, we
          have to meet him.

Priscilla looks mortified.

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU (CONT'D)
          She finished all of her school
          work?

                    MRS. BEAULI EU
          I'll check. You need to get some
          sleep.

                    PRISCILLA
          I'm fine. He's gonna be gone in a
          few months! Please don't ruin my
          life.

                    MRS. BEAULIEU
          Priscilla- don't speak to us like
          that.

                    PRISCILLA
          He just lost his mother, and he's
          still grieving. He trusts me.

Priscilla leaves.

Mrs. Beaulieu looks at her husband- we're really in for it.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - GERMANY - DAY

Elvis in full uniform, with Vernon, comes to door. Captain
Beaulieu shakes his hand and ushers them in. The door closes.
                    ELVIS
          Good afternoon, sir.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - GERMANY - AFTERNOON

Priscilla sneaks a peek of the men from the kitchen, Vernon
and Elvis sit across from Captain Beaulieu. Mrs. Beaulieu
sets up a tray of coffee, she fumbles with the cups and
saucers.

We see the men from Priscilla's P.O.V. through the doorway.

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU
          That can be tough this time of
          year.

                    ELVIS
          No kidding, sir. We've had some
          pretty cold nights out there.

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU
          Guess you're looking forward to
          getting home?

                      ELVIS
          Yes, sir.

Mrs. Beaulieu brings in the tray of drinks, trying to be
careful and stay out of their way. Elvis stands as she
approaches.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Well thank you, Ma'am.

He sits back down. Mrs. Beaulieu smiles and slips back to the
kitchen as quickly as she can, nervously busying herself with
kitchen work, wh ile Priscilla watches them.

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU
          Just what is the intent here, Mr.
          Presley?

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU (CONT'D)
          Well, let's face it: you're Elvis
          Presley. You've got women throwing
          themselves at you. Why my daughter?

Vernon shifts in his seat, waiting to see how Elvis will
answer.

Priscilla watches, holding her breath.
                    ELVIS
          Well, Sir, I happen to be very fond
          of your daughter. She's much more
          mature than her age and I really do
          enjoy spending time with her. I
          have to admit, you know, it hasn't
          been easy for me being away from
          home and all. You don't have to
          worry about her, Captain.

Captain Beaulieu looks sternly at this young man.

Priscilla and her mother share an expectant look.

                    CAPTAIN BEAULIEU (O.S.)
          Look, son, you'll need to pick her
          up yourself. Have her home by 2200.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          Yes, sir. I understand...

C.U. Priscilla-she can't believe it.

She looks to her mom who is happy for her, but reluctant.


EXT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - GERMANY - EARLY EVENING

Priscilla looks out to see Elvis cooly leaning on his car (in
civilian clothes) with a little smile. She beams, but tries
to act cool.


INT. MOVIE THEATER - GERMANY

Hu mphrey Bogart fills the frame.

Cut to Priscilla sitting in the dark next to Elvis who is
engrossed in the movie.

She looks over at him and sees him mouthing each word of
Bogart's dialog - knowing every word. He catches her look,
and gives her a wink.

                                         CUT TO:


INT. ELVIS' BMW - GERMANY - NIGHT

In the parked car, Elvis talks to her intimately.

                    ELVIS
          You ever see `On the Waterfront'?
Priscilla shakes her head.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Oh you gotta see it. There's no one
          else like him. That's the kind of
          actor that I wanna be.

He smiles at her, slightly embarrassed.

                    PRISCILLA
          I'm sure you will be.

                    ELVIS
          I wanna study at the actor's studio
          in New York.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          And tell stories I can really put
          myself into, you know? Like Brando
          and James Dean.

                    PRISCILLA
          Well, I think you'd be great.

                    ELVIS
          I don't even know if I'll even have
          a music career when I get back.

                    PRISCILLA
          What? Sure you will!

He looks at her sweetly.

                    PRISCILLA
          Well, I better go, it's getting
          late.

Elvis hands her something.

                    ELVIS
          Hold on, they gave me these to stay
          awake for night maneuvers. You can
          take one in class if you need to
          stay awake.

Priscilla looks at the small white pill in her hand, and nods
in thanks, tucking them away. In silhouet te profile, they
kiss good night quickly.

                                                  CUT TO:
INT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - PRISCILLA'S ROOM - GERMANY - NIGHT

Priscilla falls back on her pillow, looking up at the ceiling
- IN LOVE.

                                           CUT TO:


INT. ELVIS' HOUSE - BAD NAUHEIM - NIGHT

By a shimmering Christmas tree, Priscilla opens a gift Elvis
gives her. In the warm glow of the room, she opens the box to
see a delicate gold watch.

She looks up at him, beaming. Her eyes are full of tears.

                       PRISCILLA
            I just wis h there was some way I
            could go with you.

                      ELVIS
            Shh, baby. There's nothing we can
            do.

                      PRISCILLA
            I'm just afraid you'll forget me.

                      ELVIS
            I'm not gonna forget you, Cilla.
            Don't you worry.

He holds her close.

                                                     CUT TO:


INT. CAR - AIRPORT - GERMANY - DAY

Priscilla sits next to Elvis as they ride in the back of his
car. It's overcast, Priscilla sits in silence.

                      ELVIS
            I know it's not gonna be easy going
            back to being a schoolgirl, Cilla,
            but you got to. Now, I want you to
            try to have a good time, and write
            me letters every chance you get.
            You get pink stationary and address
            them to Joe.

She nods.
                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          And promise me you'll stay the way
          you are now?

                       PRISCILLA
          I will.

He gives her his combat jacket.

                    ELVIS
          I want you to have this.

As they pull up at the airport, she starts to hear and see
the crowd gathered.

They pull up to the runway. Girls scream.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          All right Baby, this is it. Now
          don't worry, I'll call you as soon
          as I get there. I promise. Now I
          don't want to see a sad face.

Elvis exits the car, she gets out.

EXT. AIRPORT - CONTINUOUS

Elvis holds her hand as they get out surrounded by a crowd of
screaming fans and press. Flashes go off in her face. A guard
escorts him away.

                       ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Bye, Baby.

Priscilla watches him go as she is surrounded by fans. She
waves, trying to keep cheerful.

A flashbulb goes off, as she's lost in the crowd.

                                            CUT TO:


INT. CLASSROOM - GERMANY - DAY

A deflated Priscilla lo oks out the window as the teacher
drones on about algebra, writing out diagrams on the board.
We hear the clock tick.

C.U. Priscilla practices her signature on her notebook:
Elvis, Elvis, Elvis....

                                                      CUT TO:
Shots of: Magazine covers with Elvis and starlet- a hand puts
it down.

Priscilla does her homework on her bed, looks at her watch,
thinking of Elvis.

Priscilla in her room, looks at magazine cover with Elvis'
picture. Hair down.

Calendar pages, yearbook photos, time going by.


INT. BEAULIEU'S HOME GERMANY

Priscilla sits around the table with her parents and little
brother.

Priscilla doesn't speak, sullen , staring down at her plate.
She pushes some peas around with her fork.

Time passing montage continues. Priscilla looks at record.
C.U. Priscilla writes a letter to Elvis.


INT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - KITCHEN - DAY

A listless Priscilla packs up her homework from the table.

Mrs. Beaulieu looks at Priscilla.

                    MRS. BEAULIEU
          Maybe it's time to forget about
          him.

Priscilla looks at her- she can't.

                     MRS. BEAULIEU (CONT'D)
          I kno w it's hard, but he's probably
          with women his own age. What about
          boys at school? Must be some
          handsome ones.

Priscilla looks at her - hopeless.


INT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Close on Priscilla's face with the phone close to her ear,
she wraps the cord around her finger.

                    PRISCILLA
          Hello?
                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          How's my Little One?

Priscilla is stunned and doesn't say anything, she smiles to
herself.

                    PRISCILLA
          Elvis? I'm fine. Only I miss you. I
          thought you'd forgotten about me.
          My parents said you did.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          Oh, baby, things just got a little
          crazy being back.

                    PRISCILLA
          Is it true about you and Nancy
          Sinatra?

                     ELVIS (O.S.)
          No, she's a friend, I'm appearing
          on her father's show. You know, I
          mis s you, Baby. I think about you
          all the time.

                    PRISCILLA
          I've missed you so much.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          I'd like to make arrangements for
          you to visit me in Memphis.

                    PRISCILLA
          What?! Oh God, I don't think my
          parents will ever let me.

                    ELVIS
          Well, leave that to me.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - GERMANY - DAY

Music swells, as C.U. Priscilla's young hands open an
envelope with a first class Pan Am ticket and a typed
it inerary with a full schedule and Vernon Presley listed as
chaperone.

                                                   CUT TO:
EXT. THE SKY - DAY

Fluffy clouds in the sky.


EXT. GRACELAND - DAY

In the bright daylight, Priscilla's P.O.V. of the musical
note gates of Graceland open..

Vernon's car drives up the steep driveway to where Graceland
stands.

Priscilla, now 16, with her light blue suitcase walks through
the columns of the small mansion.


INT. GRACELAND - LATE AFTERNOON

Priscilla follows Vernon and Dee into a lavish, colorfu l
living room. She puts down her suitcase, and smooths her
dress.

Priscilla looks at all the extravagant drapes and decoration,
chandeliers and mirrors- she's never seen anything like it
before.

Dodger gives her a hug.

                    DODGER
          Come on in, Honey. Here, let me
          take your things. Well, you made
          it! Did you have a good trip? I bet
          you would like a lemonade. And the
          boys are just right down there.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - MUSIC ROOM - AFTERNOON/EVE

Priscilla passes through a decorative doorway into a room,
filled with Elvis, his buddies including JOE, JERRY, and
ALAN, and their girls, partying and playing games.

The jukebox is playing and Elvis and some of the guys play
pool.

Elvis, now with jet black hair, is leaning over the table, a
loud ball is smacked as she walks in and he looks up.

Priscilla in an i nnocent cotton dress and hair back, looks
out of place.
                    ELVIS
          There she is!

He drops his cue stick down.
                            (CONT'D)
                    ELVIS
          Let me get a good look at you. Hi.
          Come on.

Priscilla stands there with the room full of people staring
at her.

The other girls, pretty and older, check Priscilla out. Elvis
comes over to her and picks her up with a kiss.

Buddies holler.

                    ELVIS
          Where you been all my life? Let me
          see you.

He puts her down, Priscilla wipes a tear away, embarrassed at
everyone's stares. Elvis takes her in.

                     ELVIS (CONT'D)
          You look beautiful. Oh, you look
          beautiful.

Priscilla stands self-consciously as ever.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          You gotta meet the guys. This is
          Hog Ears. You know Joe. And then
          the rest of them.

                    JOE
          Nice to see you again.

ALBERTA, the cook, brings in a tray of southern food, that
delights the crowd, it feels like every night is a party
there.

Elvis introduces her to Alberta.

                    E LVIS
          O-Five, this here is Priscilla.

                    ALBERTA
          Pleased to meet you, honey. I'm
          Alberta.

                    PRISCILLA
          Nice to meet you. I've heard so
          much about you.
                    ALBERTA
          And we heard plenty about you!
          Boys, help yourselves. Dig in, dig
          in.

The group looks at her, Elvis introduces her around, some of
the women size her up.

Elvis and the guys goof around, while Elvis struts. Priscilla
doesn't see the insecure sensitive Elvis from Germany, but a
self-confident Elvis.

                                                    LATER:

The party continues on, Priscilla is tired from the trip, but
excited to be there. Elvis le ans in.

                    ELVIS
          You tired? Why don't you go head
          upstairs? I'll meet you. It's just
          the first door on your left.

Priscilla looks around and sees the other girls checking her
out, she slips off.


INT. GRACELAND - NIGHT

Priscilla, small at the hall stairs under a big chandelier,
climbs up next to a bright blue wall.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

Priscilla enters Elvis' bedroom, looking around . It's so
different from his room in Germany- she looks at all the
luxurious furnishings, thick velvet curtains frame the
windows.

She looks at the king size bed in the middle of the room, and
wonders about the women who have slept there.


INT. GRACELAND - BATHROOM - NIGHT

She opens up a pair of her prettiest cotton light blue
pajamas.

Priscilla goes in the bathroom and brushes her teeth and her
hair.
Priscilla stands in the doorway to the bedroom, gathering up
her courage.

She hears Elvis calling to someone as he enters the bedroom.

                       ELVIS (O.S.)
             Don't let me sleep no later than
             three tomorrow.

Priscilla hears him lock the door.
                                      (CONT'D)
                       ELVIS (O.S.)
             Where are you, baby?

She calls out between the closed door.

                       PRISCILLA
             I'm here. I'll be just a few
             minutes.

                       ELVIS (O.S.)
             All right. Don't take too long. I
             wanna see my girl.

Priscilla takes a deep breath, and opens the door.

INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

She walks slowly to Elvis who lies on the big bed in the dark
room, looking at her.

She climbs up the bed and lies next to him, their faces not
far apart.

They stare at each other and Elvis touches her face softly.

                       ELVIS (CONT'D)
             You don't know how much I missed
             you. I haven't been able to get you
             out of my head since Germany.
             You're the one thing that kept me
             going.

Priscilla's eyes well up with tears. He holds her close to
him.

They kiss.

He pulls her closer.

She kisses him passionately, wanting him after all of these
months. He returns her passion- stopping himself abruptly.
                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Wait, hold on, baby, things can get
          out of hand.

                    PRISCILLA
          What? Is there something wrong?

He shakes his head and kisses her.

                    ELVIS
              (whispers)
          Just not yet. There'll be a right
          time.

She looks at him confused and flustered.

Elvis takes his sleeping pill and hands her one.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Here, you can take one of these.
          It'll help you sleep after your
          trip.

She looks at it and swallows it.

Elvis dims the light .

She melts into his arms.

                                              FADE TO BLACK.

                    DODGER (O.S.)
          Priscilla? Priscilla?


INT. GRACELAND - BEDROOM - DAY

Close on Priscilla, the light from the window streaming in on
her.

She tries to open her eyes.

                    DODGER (O.S.)
          Priscilla, hon. It's Grandma.

Priscilla opens her eyes and sees Grandma Dodger. She tries
to lift her head, but it's too heavy.

                    DODGER (CONT'D)
          What'd you give this young'un?
          You've got no business givin ' her
          something she's not used to. You
          know how long she's been like this?
          You need to call the doctor.
Priscilla squinting, smiles up at them with a giddy grin.

                    ELVIS
          I dunno, she's wakin' up.

Elvis is kneeling next to her. She uses all her strength to
lift her head a little- she looks around the bright room.

                    PRISCILLA
              (drowsy)
          Where am I?

                    ELVIS
          Hi, baby. Baby, we've been trying
          to wake you up.

                    PRISCILLA
          I just went to bed.

                     ELVIS
          No, baby, you've been out for two
          days. On a goddamn five hundred
          milligra m Placidyl. I must have
          been out of my head givin' it to
          you that way.

                    PRISCILLA
          Two days? Well, that's two days off
          my trip!

She sits up.

                    ELVIS
          It's fine, you don't have to worry
          about it. We got plenty of time. So
          how'd you like to go to Vegas?

                     PRISCILLA
          Vegas?!

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. LAS VEGAS STRIP - NIGHT

Establishing stock footage.


INT. CASINO - LAS VEGAS - NIGHT

E.C.U. Slot machines blink and spin.

Gaudy chandeli ers sparkle.
A flash pops as Priscilla, in a glamorous grown-up dress,
walks in with Elvis and entourage, hotel attendants at their
sides. Fans try to get close. She looks around at the
gamblers, heavily made-up women in clouds of smoke, lights
and action all around her, like nothing she's seen before.

Elvis and entourage make their way past loud slot machines,
through the casino club, flash bulbs pop, crowds g ather
around. Priscilla is surrounded by the guys in their dark
suits as they move through.

Champagne bottles pop- shrimp cocktails are set down in a red
shiny booth.

A Roulette wheel spins. E.C.U. An olive drops into a martini
glass.

Elvis with a cigar plays blackjack, with Priscilla proudly by
his side, nursing a drink.

                       PRISCILLA
                 (screams)
             Twenty-one!!

He scoops up the cards.

                       ELVIS
             I'm sorry, baby, that's twenty-two.
             That's twenty-two. That's a bust.

Priscilla is embarrassed, but keeps going.

Some of the guys take uppers. He hands her one.

Priscilla is hoisted high up into the air by some of the guys-
in victory at a game table. She screams.

In a corner booth they have a private moment.

She beams.

Priscilla and Elvis look at each other- falling more in love.

                                                   CUT TO:


EXT. CASINO - AFTERNOON

In silence, Priscilla and Elvis, both in dark glasses, hand
in hand, leave the hotel. Slow motion, she's with him and
this is the life.
They get in a limo and drive off.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Priscilla looks at Elvis as the afternoon sun streams in.

                    ELVIS
          Baby, I hate to say it, but our
          time is up.

                    PRISCILLA
              (sobbing)
          No, I'm not going back. I'll call
          my parents and tell them that I
          missed the flight.

                    ELVIS
          You really think they're gonna
          believe that?

                    PRISCILLA
          Then I'll tell them the truth, that
          I love you and I'm not go ing back.

                    ELVIS
          Baby, that's just gonna make it
          worse for the next time. I gotta go
          do another film, so if you go back
          and you do well in school, maybe
          your parents will let you come
          back.

                    PRISCILLA
          Yes, but when?!

                    ELVIS
          We'll sort it out. Come here.

They kiss romantically, framed by the yellow curtains.

She looks up at him.

We hear the sound of a jet taking off over her sad face.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. AIRPORT - GER MANY - DAY

A disheveled and dazed Priscilla comes out, listlessly
carrying her suitcase.
She sees her parents waiting for her with big anticipatory
smiles- but as she gets closer their faces drop in horror.

Mr. Beaulieu turns away, as her mom stares at her - what
happened?

Priscilla realizes her heavy black eye makeup has smeared
down her face, her teased hair is a knotted mess.


EXT. AIRPORT - GERMANY - DAY

It's a grey day. They get in the car in silence- their fresh
faced girl back a mes s. Captain Beaulieu is livid.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - GERMANY - DAY

Priscilla walks down the hall with her books, kids talk and
goof around... another dull day at school for her, without
friends, without Elvis.


INT. SCHOOL CLASSROOM - GERMANY - DAY

Priscilla sits in class, uninterested.


EXT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - GERMANY - DAY

It's a grey winter day, back at the small house on base.

We can hear Priscill a and her mother arguing.

(Pre-lap first 3 lines from next scene).

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - GERMANY - DAY

                    MOM (O.S.)
          Why you- why can't he find someone
          his own age? You're only seventeen.

Close on Priscilla's innocent face staring up at her mother.

                    PRISCILLA
          He's not like you imagine, and he
          needs me, Mom. I won't get hurt.
          Please just talk to Dad.
                    (MORE)
                    (MORE)
                    PRISCILLA (CONT'D)
          I only have a few more credits left
          to graduate. Please.

Her mother, hands covering her upset face, raises her head
and looks at her.

                    MOM
          Alright. Now help me with these.

Priscilla looks at her mother who brushes a tear away.

Priscilla gives her a big hug.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - GERMANY - EVENING

Captain Beaulieu has the phone to his ear, as Priscilla spies
on him, holding her breath.

                     ELVIS (O.S.)
          S ir, I promise to enroll her in a
          good Catholic school and make sure
          she graduates. She'll live with my
          father and Dee and have a chaperone
          at all times and my grandmother and
          my cousin, Patsy are here too.
          She'll be looked after as part of
          the family here. I love your
          daughter and I can assure you that
          my intentions are honorable, Sir.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. BEAULIEU'S HOME - PRISCILLA'S ROOM - GERMANY - NIGH T

Priscilla lays in bed, listening to the muffled arguments of
her parents.

                    MR. BEAULIEU (O.S.)
          She's gotta forget about him.

                    MOM (O.S.)
          And what if she doesn't? Then
          she'll never forgive us.

                    MR. BEAULIEU (O.S.)
          She's gotta finish school.
                    MOM (O.S.)
          I know. But what are we gonna do?!
          She said if we don't let her go,
          she's going to find a way to get
          there on her own.

                                               CUT TO BLACK.


EXT. GRACELAND - DAY

Vernon's car pulls up to Graceland with Priscilla and Captain
Beaulieu.


INT. GRACELAND - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Vernon sets down her suitcase.

                    VERNON
          Sorry Elvis's shoot's got delayed.
          He'll be back soon. I'll take her
          for school registration just as
          soon as she's settled.

Grandma gives Priscilla a warm hug.

                    GRANDMA
          This girl will be well looked
          after.

Grandma and Vernon exit.

Close on Captain Beaulieu as he hugs Priscilla.

She sees the concern on his face, and reassures him
cheerfully.

                    PRISCILLA
          Please don't worry. I'll be fine.

He is full of doubt and fear, but he nods, and leaves her to
her new life.

                                                    CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Prisci lla looks around the heavily decorated room. It's empty
and quiet now, without the crowd coming and going. She can
hear Alberta in the kitchen with the T.V. on. She looks
around, walking through decorated room after room.
INT. GRACELAND OFFICE - DAY

She peeks into a room where a few women are working, PATSY,
early 20s and friendly, smiles at her, next to BECKY.

                    PATSY
          Hi Priscilla. I'm Patsy, this is
          Becky, we run the office, here.

                      BECKY
          Hi!

                    PRISCILLA
          It's nice to meet you. I've heard
          so much about you.

Patsy smiles.

                    PATSY
          Us too...Elvis left a gift for you,
          on the back patio.

                      PRISCILLA
          Oh, okay.

                    PATSY
          You give us a holler if yo u need
          anything.

                    PRISCILLA
          Okay, thank you. Bye.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND - PATIO - DAY

Priscilla opens the door to see a little gated pen with a
small white puppy, HONEY, with a bow around her. Priscilla
exclaims overjoyed, and picks her up.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - AFTERNOON

Close on Priscilla with the phone to her ear.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          How's my girl?

                    PRISCILLA
          I just can't believe I'm really
          here.
                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          Yeah, I only have a little longer
          on this shoot and then I'll be
          home. Is everyone taking good care
          of you?

                    PRISCILLA
          Yes, everyone's been really nice.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          Alright, that's good... Alright
          baby, I gotta get back to set.

                    PRISCILLA
          Okay. I miss you.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          Good night, Baby.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. VERNON'S CADILLAC - OUTSIDE SCHOOL - DAY

Vernon drops Priscilla off for her first day of sc hool.

                    VERNON
          Good luck. Have a good day.

                       PRISCILLA
          Thank you.

She's anxious to get out.

                     VERNON
              (firm)
          Now, you won't be able to invite
          anyone over, strangers aren't
          allowed in Graceland.

She gives him a look, with a small nod and gets out.


EXT. IMMACULATE CONCEPTION HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

Priscilla, with her hair done and slight eyeliner, in her
school uniform, walks on the path towards the school.

We follow her as fresh-faced school girls look at her.

                                                   CUT TO:
INT. IMMACULATE CONCEPTION HIGH SCHOOL - CLASSROOM - DAY

A teacher speaks as Priscilla follows along. She sees a note
on the ground being passed. Two girls in the back whisper.

                    SCHOOLGIRL
              (whispers)
          She's supposed to be with Elvis
          Presley. If we make friends with
          her, maybe we can meet him!

Priscilla hears them.


EXT. GRACELAND GATES - DAY

Some fans wait at the gates.

                                                   CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND - DAY

Priscilla s its on the front lawn playing with her puppy.
Below at the gate, some fans wait.

Dee passes by.

                    DEE
          Oh Honey, you can't be out here
          making a public display of
          yourself.

                    PRISCILLA
          Oh, I didn't think it--

                    DEE
          Well you had better start thinkin'.

She walks off. Priscilla looks around, stands up, brushing
herself off and takes Honey back to the house.


INT. GRACELAND - BATHROOM - DAY

Priscilla lies in a bubble ba th, with her hair up. We hear
the drip of the faucet.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - LIVING ROOM/MUSIC ROOM - AFTERNOON

Priscilla does French homework.
C.U. Cotton balls between her toes, as she paints her toe
nails.


INT. GRACELAND - LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON

Priscilla walks around the shag carpet, twisting the phone
cord while she talks on the phone. (Close on her feet, hands
twisting cord)

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          I said to the director today,
          "Why'd we come all the way out to
          Los Angeles to film the Smoky
          Mountains. Hell, you may know more
          about movie makin', b ut I know a
          think or two about the Smoky
          Mountains. And I'll tell you what,
          they ain't got no coconut trees on
          `em!"

He cracks up, trying to make her laugh, she looks out the
window, not able to tell him how she's really feeling.
                                   (CONT'D)
                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          You, there, baby?

                      PRISCILLA
          I'm here.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          How are you doing?

She puts on a brave face.

                     PRISCILLA
          I'm great. It's all been really
          wonderful.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          That's what I like to hear. Baby,
          do you have everything you need?
          How you doin' on cash?

                    PRISCILLA
          It's funny you should ask. Your
          daddy's pretty strict.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
              (laughs)
          Yeah that's my daddy, He's always
          been tight. That's why I have him
          taking care of the bills.
                    (MORE)
                    ELVIS (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          I don't trust anybody else. Don't
          worry about it, I'll talk to him.

                    PRISCILLA
          There's a boutique that said I
          could work there part time, I
          thought I could work there a few
          days a week after school.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          Well, you'll have to forget about
          that.

                    PRISCILLA
          I thought it could be fun.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          Well, it's either me or a career,
          Baby. When I call you, I need you
          to be there for me.

Priscilla takes that in.

                    ELVIS (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          Just a few more days and we'll be
          home!

                    PRISCILLA
          Ok! I love you. Bye.

The line goes dead.

She walks through the thick shag carpet.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND GATE - NIGHT

An excited group of fans crowd by the gate.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

A loud horn blares from Elvis' bus. Priscilla comes
downstairs as Elvis and the guys come in.

                    ELVIS
          Memphis we're back, baby. It's good
          to be home. Where's my Cilla?
Priscilla comes down the stairs to greet Elvis, the whole
household is there, and the place is back to life.

                    PRISCILLA
          Hello.

                    ELVIS
          Hello? Hello.

He laughs and picks her up in his arms, kissing her.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Dodger, you waited for me too,
          bless your little heart.

He hugs her and the rest.

The house is full of people and energy with the guys bringing
in the luggage and meeting their wives, Alberta cooking...
Priscilla is a little lost in the sudden change of
atmosphere.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
              (Calls out)
          O-Five, what's for dinner?

Priscilla, not wanting to be too eager, waits in the living
room.
                                     (CONT'D)
                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          Cilla, come here!

Priscilla and Elvis talk in foyer.
                            (CONT'D)
                    ELVIS
          How's school?

She tells him everything she couldn't say on the phone.

                      PRISCILLA
          Oh, it's okay, I don't really   talk
          to anybody there. Grandma and   Patsy
          have been nice. I missed you.   I've
          been trying to find things to   do
          with my ...

                    ELVIS
          You gotta keep up with your school
          work otherwise your father won't
          let you stay.

I know, but --
                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          You sure do look pretty. C'mon,
          let's have something to eat -

He takes her in. Alberta enters with dinner and the group
floods in. (Elvis and Alberta banter)

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          O-Five, I sure did miss you, baby!
          Let me see you. Hand me a plate.

Music blasts, people talk and laugh, Elvis' whole group
surrounds the table filled with pork chops, cornbread and
home fries.


STAY ON HER FACE.

                    JERRY
          I'll tell you, tha t Ursula was
          always around.

                      ALAN
          She was.

                    ELVIS
          Oh goddamn man, she was a big
          woman.

                    ELVIS
          She had a body like a man, no hips,
          shoulders broader than mine.
          Goddamn, I was scared to take my
          shirt off next to her.

                    JOE
          But E, she only had eyes for you.

The boys all laugh.

                    ELVIS
          No way, man, not with that John
          Derek just lurking around with them
          beady eyes.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

Priscilla goes over to Elvis who sits on the edge of the big
bed, he takes his sleeping pill.
                    PRISCILLA
          Why are you taking those now?
          You'll fall asleep.

                    ELVIS
          It'll take a while for `em to take
          effect.

He hands her one.

She smiles and puts it aside.

They lie in bed close together.
                            (CONT'D)
                    ELVIS
          How's my girl?

                    PRISCILLA
          Just so happy you're back.

He kisses her and puts his arms around her, moving close. She
responds, less inhibited. She reaches out to him, kisses him,
is bolder.

                    ELVIS
          Baby, don't... Don't... Don't get
          carried away. You gotta let me
          decide when we take this moment.
          It's just this is very sacred to
          me.

She sits up in anger.

                    PRISCILLA
          What about Anita?! You mean you
          didn't make love to her the whole
          time you were together!

                    ELVIS
          That was different, I mean, she was
          older. That's just the way that I
          feel.

                    PRISCILLA
          What about how I feel? That's
          asking a lot of someone.

                    ELVIS
          It doesn't mean we can 't do other
          things.

He pulls her close and kisses her tenderly, she gives in.

                                               FADE TO BLACK.
EXT. GRACELAND - SUNNY DAY

The door to the Limousine opens and Elvis beckons her in.

                    ELVIS
          Hop in, I wanna take you shopping.

They drive off.


INT. MEMPHIS BOUTIQUE - DAY

Priscilla tries on a slinky dress, while Elvis and some
buddies watch.

                    ELVIS
          Well, would you look at that, huh?

Priscilla models the dress, still an insecure teenager.

                    PRISCILLA
          I think these clothes are too
          sophisticated for me.
              (as she look s in the
               mirror)

                    ELVIS
          Honey, what's sophisticated? You
          could go around in a feather and
          it'll be sophisticated.

She tries on dress after dress as Elvis reviews them.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          I like you in blue. Blue's your
          color.

She steps into matching shoes, and shows him another one with
a print.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Prints take away from your looks.

                    PRISCILLA
          I like this one.

                    ELVIS
          No, solids suit you better.

Another dress.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          And I hate brown, it reminds me of
          the army.
Boxes and bags are carried out.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Black hair and more eye makeup will
          make your eyes stand out more.

                                                      CUT TO:


INT. MEMPHIS HAIR SALON - DAY

Close on jet black dye running off wet hair in the sink.

In moments of real time, we go through the process: Close on
the hairdryer blowing hair.

Close up on black hair twisting around a big curler, and a
cloud of hairspray.

Priscilla spins around in the chair - w ith tall coiffed black
hair.


PRISCILLA, ELVIS AND FRIENDS PARTY AT NIGHT MONTAGE:


THEY PACK A DOZEN PEOPLE INTO A CRAMMED LIMO


BUMPER CARS - CILLA SCREAMS AS SHE WHIPS BY


ROMAN CANDLE WARS IN THE BACK YARD


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - MORNING

A tired Priscilla looks at the alarm clock, trying to wake
up, she takes a pill from the nightstand.

                                            CUT TO:


EXT. IMMACULATE CONCEPTION HIGH SCHOOL � DAY

Priscil la walks to class- her jet-black hair and eyeliner
with her school uniform. Girls look at her judgmentally.

                                            CUT TO:
INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - AFTERNOON

Priscilla comes in (in her school uniform) with a tray of
breakfast- eggs and a big pile of bacon. She opens the heavy
curtains in the dark room, trying to wake a groggy Elvis.

                       PRISCILLA
          Hello.

                    ELVIS
          What time is it?

                    PRISCILLA
          Almost four. I brought breakfast
          for you.

He leans up and takes a morning pill as he starts the day
with a pile of burnt bacon with toas t and eggs.

                                                  CUT TO:


PARTYING AT NIGHT WITH E AND THE BOYS CONT.

Elvis gives Priscilla a pearl handled pistol.

AFTERNOON - Elvis shows Priscilla how to shoot a gun with the
guys.

DUSK. ROLLER RINK - They speed by under the lights.

INT. ELVIS' BEDROOM - GRACELAND - DAY

In the dark velvet cave, the alarm clock sounds - Priscilla's
arm slams it quickly. She sits up, exhausted and sneaks a
Dexedrine in her mouth while Elvis sleeps soundly.

                                                  CUT TO:


PRISCILLA LAYS OUT A ROW OF SEQUIN DRESSES


OUT AT A CROWDED MUSIC CLUB

GOLF CARTS SPEED AROUND GRACELAND AT NIGHT - They speed by-
the wind blowing her hair. Priscilla screams.


EXT. GRACELAND - DAY

The house stands in the daylight.
A gardener turns a golf cart on its side, right side up.
Priscilla walks past carrying shopping bags.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - AFTERNOON

Priscilla comes in the dark room, carrying some shopping
bags, in a new dress (with a bold 60's print) she's proudly
wearing.

Elvis waking up, pushes a button and the heavy velvet
curtains open to let in a stream of sunlight. He leans up to
start the day.

He squints to look at her.

                    ELVIS
          Now what is that dress? Uh, that
          doesn't suit you, Baby.

                    PRISCILLA
          It doesn't?

                    ELVIS
          No, it does nothin' for you, takes
          away from your eyes and from your
          face.

He gets up and moves closer.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Oh, man, it does nothing for your
          figure. All you see is a goddamn
          dress.

Priscilla starts to cry.

                    PRISCILLA
          You finished?

She goes in the bathroom and slams the door.

                    ELVIS (O.S .)
          Satnin', you're a small girl. You
          gotta keep away from the prints,
          baby!

She opens the door, snapping.

                    PRISCILLA
          Okay, I'll return the fucking
          dress!
Elvis falls to the floor with laughter.

                                                      CUT TO:


INT. IMMACULATE CONCEPTION HIGH SCHOOL � DAY

Priscilla in her school uniform, sits across from an old
strict-looking nun in cat eye glasses. Priscilla taps her
foot quickly, wired.

                    SISTER ADRIAN
          Priscilla, final exams are coming
          up � you will need to keep your
          grades up in order to graduate with
          your class.

                    PRISCILLA
          Yes, Sister Adrian.

                                                      CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

Close on Priscilla on the phone.

                      PRISCILLA
          Dad, I am doing great, you don't
          have to...Yes, of course I'm doing
          well in school...Yes, I will
          graduate. Don't worry...I miss you
          too... I will... Talk to you soon. Bye.

Priscilla hangs up and lies on the carpet with schoolbooks
out, trying to study.

We can hear Elvis singing along with a Timi Yuro record
loudly in the next room with hi s buddies who are joking
around.

She gets up and shuts the door, trying to focus.

                                                      CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - MORNING

E.C.U. PRISCILLA'S MOUTH- POPPING A YELLOW PILL

                                            CUT TO:
INT. IMMACULATE CONCEPTION HIGH SCHOOL - CLASSROOM - DAY

C.U. On a MATH TEST

Priscilla sits with the other girls in a quiet, crowded
classroom as they lean over tests.

                    TEACHER (O.S.)
          Pass that across. You have twenty
          minutes to complete your answers.

Priscilla stares at the sheet, lost, looking at the math
equations, tapping her foot nervously, wired on Dexedrine.

She looks around as her classmates fil l out answers. The loud
sound of the clock's minutes passing.

She looks at a girl next to her, JANET, a straight A student.
Priscilla taps her on the shoulder and whispers to her.

                    PRISCILLA
               (whispers)
          Are you an Elvis fan?

Janet nods.

                    PRISCILLA (CONT'D)
          How would you like to come to one
          of his parties?

Priscilla eyes her test, and she gets it. Janet smiles and
slides her test to the edge of her desk in Priscilla 's view.
Priscilla gives her a thankful smile.

                                         CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND - DAY

Graduation day! Elvis is dressed in a three-piece blue suit,
excited for the big day.

Grandma Dodger and all the gang are outside while Priscilla
in her pink dress comes out to see him present her with a red
Corvair with a big bow on it. She is thrilled!

                    PRISCILLA
          That's for me?!

Priscilla smiles.

                    ELVIS
          Yes ma'am. What do you thin k? You
          like it?
                    PRISCILLA
          I love it! I can't believe you did
          this.

Joe takes a photo.

                    ELVIS
          Alright it's time to go - Cilla's
          graduating!

Priscilla pulls him aside, looks up at him.

                    PRISCILLA
          Can I ask you something? I was
          wondering if, maybe you could wait
          outside the ceremony. I'm afraid
          you being there might take away the
          attention from the graduates.

Elvis makes a hurt vulnerable smile.

                    ELVIS
          I guess I hadn't thoug ht of it like
          that.

Priscilla gives him a loving look.

                    ELVIS
          I won't come in. I'll wait for you
          outside in the car. That way it'll
          kinda be like I'm there.

                       PRISCILLA
          Thank you.

Priscilla smiles and kisses him.

                    ELVIS
          Alright, let's go baby!

                                                   CUT TO:


EXT. IMMACULATE CONCEPTION HIGH SCHOOL - ENTRANCE - DAY

Priscilla runs out with her diploma and sees:

Elvis and the boys all in dark suits and sunglasses, .38s i n
their waistbands, lean against the car, like Mafia, waiting
for her.

A group of nuns have run out and huddle around getting Elvis'
autograph.
Elvis looks up at her with a big smile and starts applauding.
He kisses her proudly.

                    ELVIS
          I love you too. Let me see it.
          Throw it in the air.

Priscilla unrolls her diploma and shows him with a big smile.

She throws her cap into the air as the guys all holler.

The silk cap flies through the blue sky.

                                                     CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

Black out curtains closed, Elvis and Priscilla are in th e
dark cave of his room - now they can finally be alone
together! He makes a call on the bedside phone.

                    ELVIS
          No calls unless it's my daddy or an
          emergency from the Colonel.

They watch old movies, the Johnny Carson show on TV.

                                           CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - HALLWAY - DAY

A tray of left over room service sits in front of Elvis'
bedroom door. The TV blares inside.

                                           CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND - DAY

The gardener waters p lants outside.


INT. GRACELAND - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Outside the room -the food tray is taken and replaced with a
new one with peanut butter sandwiches.


SERIES OF FOOD TRAYS - SHOWING A LAPSE OF TIME
INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - DAY

Elvis sings along to the radio while he eats bacon off a tray
in pajamas.

He looks at a pile of scripts and throws them on the floor.

He turns on the TV.

Priscilla peers out the heavy drapes, a crack of light comes
in.

                                                     CUT TO:

Later: In bed, taking polaroids, she's in a nighty and a
captain's hat, they goof around, start a playful pillow
fight, laughing...now she ha s on a flower lei, a secretary
look, he grabs her as she laughs. (Intercut quick montage of
their polaroids)

He throws a pillow at her, they start to wrestle. She breaks
away and throws a pillow at him harder than she means to. She
throws another one- it hits him in the face. His eyes flash
with anger.

                    ELVIS
          Not so rough! You're not a goddamn
          man!

He throws her down on the bed demonstrating how hard s he
threw it, and accidentally hits her in the eye.

She jumps up, touching her eye.

                    PRISCILLA
          Oh god, you can't play without
          winning.

Priscilla stomps off and slams the door behind her.

                    ELVIS
          I don't want to play with a
          goddamn man!

Elvis comes over to the door, tripping on his way.

He leans on the door, calming down. He talks through the
door.

                    ELVIS
          Baby, I'm sorry. Are you okay? Open
          the door.

She slowly opens it.
                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          That was a real accident, baby. You
          know I'd never hurt you in any real
          way.

                    PRISCILLA
          Maybe the pills are too much?

Elvis gets defensive.

                    ELVIS
              (pissed)
          I have my doctors looking after me,
          I don't need an amateur opinion.

He walks off, she realizes this could be a problem.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND - DAY

Priscilla watches as Elvis and the guys have a shooting
contest in the backyard.

                    ELVIS
          Joe, don't go tucking that revolver
          in your waistband now.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          See I wouldn't want you to go
          off...

                    ELVIS/THE GUYS
          (in unison) ...half-cocked.

Elvis, cigar in his mouth sees something in the distance he
doesn't like.

                    ELVIS
          What's that old house still doing
          back there?

                    JOE
          Uncle Travis' old place? Yeah it's
          storage now.

                    ELVIS
          Well it looks goddamn awful.

                                                  CUT TO:
EXT. GRACELAND - LATE AFTERNOON

Elvis, in a big winter coat, climbs up to drive the
bulldozer, putting a football helmet on.

Priscilla, Vernon, the guys and some of the maintenance team
watch and holler as Elvis takes off in the bulldozer and
starts tearing down a side of the small structure.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND - DAY

The boys load up the bus.

Elvis and Priscilla walk arm in arm to the bus. He's full of
energy to hit the road. Music blasts from the bus, the guys
call out to each other to make sure they have everything.

                    ELVIS
          All right. So back to Hollywood. I
          won't be too long.

He sees her sad face.

                    JOE
          Hey E, you driving?!

                    ELVIS
          Yeah, man, of course. Get on the
          damn bus.
              (to Priscilla)
          What is it, Baby?

                    PRISCILLA
          I'm gonna miss you.

He nods to him and back to Priscilla.

                    ELVIS
          I know, Little One. Ju st give me a
          few weeks to get into this movie
          and then maybe you can come out for
          a while. I need you to keep the
          home fires warm. Now, you be a good
          girl, and I'll call you when I get
          there, okay?

He gives her a quick kiss and boards the bus.
                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
              (calls out)
          Alright, viva Las Vegas. Let's roll
          it!

Priscilla watches the bus head out.

She turns and walks slowly back to the house.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND � OFFICE � DAY

Priscilla sits with Honey in the office talking with Patsy
and Becky while they sort fan mail.

                    PATSY
          Oh, you've gotta see the things we
          get. Open this.

The girls laugh.

Vernon comes in and breaks it up. He points to a sign on the
door `employees only.'

                    VERNON
          Alright that's enough gabbing!
          Priscilla, I'm afraid I'm gonna
          have to ask you to leave so they
          can get their work done.

Priscilla gets up and Vernon closes the door after her.

                                                   CUT TO:

INT. MEMPHIS HAIR SALON - DAY C.U.

A magazine cover with Elvis and ANN-MARGRET. Priscilla sits
under a dome hair dryer in a Memphis salon. Zoom out slowly
from her face to see her sitting a mongst the Memphis ladies
in the salon. We hear the hum of the dryers and Southern
ladies' chit chat.

                                         CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - DAY

Priscilla finishes packing her suitcase when the phone rings.

She grabs the receiver.
                      PRISCILLA
          Hello?

                      ELVIS (O.S.)
          Hi, Baby.

                    PRISCILLA
          Hi, how's it going there? I can't
          wait to see you!

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          Now's not the time to come out,
          there's a problem on set.

She sets down her nightgown she was folding.

                    PRISCILLA
          What kind of problem?

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          It's just that all hell's broke
          loose.

                    ELVIS (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          I've got some crazed director madly
          in love with Ann. The way he's
          directing it, you 'd think it was
          her goddamn movie. She's got all
          the close-ups and now they want her
          to sing some of the songs with me.
          I tell you, Colonel `bout blew a
          fuse.

                    PRISCILLA
          How are you and Ann-Margret getting
          along?

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          Oh, she's fine, I guess. She's a
          typical Hollywood starlet. You
          know, careers come first and their
          man second, that's not for me.

Close on Priscilla's face.

                    PRISCILLA
          You know, there 's a lot of rumors
          about you two, is there anything to
          it?

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          Hell, no. You know how reporters
          are, just blowing everything out of
          proportion.
                    PRISCILLA
          I wanna come out.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          No, not now, I'll let you know when
          it's a good time. You know the
          Colonel doesn't think it's good for
          my fans to know about you. Hell,
          I'll be done before you know it.
          You keep your little ass there and
          keep the home fires burning.

                    PRISCILLA
          The flame's burning low. Someone
          had better get home and start the
          fire.

Elvis laughs.


INT. GRACELAND - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Pri scilla sits alone on the 15-foot couch with Honey,
flipping through a magazine. She flips to a page- with a big
photo of Elvis and Ann- Margret beaming at each other with a
headline: Elvis & Ann Margret's Affair Blossoms.

Priscilla looks at the photos. C.U. Ann-Margret's smiling
face.

                                           CUT TO:

EXT. LOS ANGELES HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Priscilla, suitcase in her hand, knocks on the door. Joe
opens it, t he house is full of people.


INT. LOS ANGELES HOUSE - AFTERNOON

                    JOE
          Hey, E.

Elvis enters to see her.

                    ELVIS
          Well, look who just walked in.

She looks at him like - that's right, I'm here. Elvis and
Priscilla kiss- backlit with a sun flare.

                                           CUT TO:
EXT. LOS ANGELES HOUSE - DAY

Priscilla sits at a table on the patio with sunglasses,
breakfast with a grapefruit half on a plate in front of her.

Elvis comes out to her with sunglasses on.

                    ELVIS
          I can't believe she did this.

He tosses down a paper with the headline: Elvis and Ann
Margret ENGAGED.

                     ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Every goddamn paper in town's
          picked it up. Honey, I'm gonna have
          to ask you to leave. There's gonna
          b e press all over the place.
          Colonel thinks it's best that you
          go back to Memphis just until it
          all calms down.

Priscilla stands up, finally losing it after all these
months.

                    PRISCILLA
              (screams)
          What's going on!

Priscilla throws a vase that smashes on the wall behind him.

                    PRISCILLA (CONT'D)
          Why doesn't she go back to Sweden
          where she belongs?!

He leans in close to her.

                    ELVIS
          Goddamn, I didn't know things were
          gonna get out of hand. I need a
          woman who understands things like
          this might happen.

He looks at her.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Are you going to be her - or not?
          Priscilla stares at him with
          defiance. There's a long pause- a
          standoff.

                    PRISCILLA
          I'll leave tomorrow. I'll be
          waiting in Memphis.
EXT. GRACELAND - EVENING

Elvis' bus honks the horn as they return to Graceland.


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

Elvis puts down his things, and takes Priscilla's face in his
hands.

                     ELVIS
          It's over, Cilla. I swear to you.
          It's over.

Priscilla listens silently.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          I got caught up in a situation that
          was out of hand from the beginning.
          I don't like being exploited like
          that. You know I can't live like
          that. She's a nice girl, but she's
          not for me.

Priscilla doesn't want to hear it.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Let's just forget it.

He gives her the little boy look that always melts her.

                    ELVIS
          You're my girl, baby. You're the
          only girl I ever loved. The only
          girl I wanna be with.

He pulls her close.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND POOL - DAY

Elvis and the guys goof around in the pool, doing chicken
fights. Priscilla and a few of the wives lie on lounge
chairs. She shoots Super 8 home movies.

Joe, fully clothed in some bright-colored golf pants, sits on
a chaise lounge.

Elvis gives two of the other GUYS a sign to throw Joe in the
pool. Everyone cracks up.
Everyone cracks up again, and Joe splashes Elvis and laughs
along.

Elvis gets out of the pool, dripping with water and lies on
Priscilla who laughs and tries to fight him off. They kiss in
the late afternoon sun.

                                                     CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

C.U. Priscilla's hand takes an envelope out of a jacket
pocket and finds a note in girly handwriting and a lipstick
kiss: When are we going to get together again? I miss you.

                                                     CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' OFFICE - AFTERNOON/EVENING

Elvis is on the phone, he looks up at her.

Priscilla holds up the letter, looking at Elvis.

                    ELVIS
          Daddy, I'm gonna have to call you
          back.

His eyes are dark, he's in the middle of some work stress and
annoyed to be interrupted.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Now don't go imagining things.

                    PRISCILLA
          Like Ann-Margret?! She holds up a
          note.

                       PRISCILLA
          `Scoobie'?

She stares at him.

                    ELVIS
          That's it, Woman! I don't want to
          hear another word.

                    PRISCILLA
          Well is there something you're
          hiding?
                      ELVIS
            I don't have a goddamn thing to
            hide. You're just being too goddamn
            aggressive and demanding. I think
            you should go see your parents for
            a little while.

                      PRISCILLA
                (yells)
            What? Well I'm not going!

                      ELVIS
            I think you should. Matter of fact,
            I'll help you.

He goes and gets her suitcase from the closet, and starts
throwing all of her clothes with hangers on it.

                      ELVIS (CONT'D)
            Start packing!

Priscilla sobs while s he packs her bag. Elvis goes out to the
hall and yells down.

                      ELVIS (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                (yelling)
            Joe- Joe get Cilla on the next
            flight outta here. She's gonna go
            see her parents for a little while.
            Get her a ticket outta here.

He looks at her reaction as he says this.

Priscilla sobs as she folds her clothes.

Elvis comes back in the room, looking down at her.

                        ELVIS (CONT'D)
            Hurry up!

Priscilla gets up slowly and makes her way to the door.

Just as she reaches it, she feels his hand on her shoulder.

She turns, and he takes her in his arms and holds her tight.

                      ELVIS
            Now do you understand? All right,
            baby. Come on, come here.

She sobs.
                    ELVIS
          Don't you see baby? That's better.
          You need someone who's going to
          take you right to that point...

She clings to him in tears.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND - DAY

We see Priscilla looking out the window, a small figure
upstairs in the grand fa�ade.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - HALLWAY/ELVIS' OFFICE - DAY

Priscilla walks down the hall, she hears Elvis on the phone.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          Daddy, I'm lonesome and depressed.
          And the Colonel's meddling in my
          music behind my back, telling me
          how to record, in the way that the
          RCA wants it to sound, I don't
          wanna record up front, I wanna do
          it the way that I always done it,
          with the band...I feel like nobody
          understands.

Priscilla stops at his door, putting on her most cheerful
face and smiles at him. He looks back giving nothing.

Feeling rejected, she continues on her way .

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND � ELVIS' BEDROOM � DAY

Elvis sings along to the radio while he eats bacon off a tray
in pajamas.

He looks at a pile of scripts and throws them on the floor.

                    ELVIS
          "Double Trouble." "Live a Little,
          Love a Little." "Tickle Me." These
          scripts are all fucking awful! And
          the Colonel just wants me to keep
          doing these dumb musicals.
                    (MORE)
                    (MORE)
                    ELVIS
          When's he gonna send me a goddamn
          decent script?

                    PRISCILLA
          Why don't you ask for something
          more serious?

                    ELVIS
              (Dismissive)
          It doesn't work like that. He's
          gotta send me something better.

He turns on the TV.

Priscilla peers out the heavy drapes, a crack of light comes
in.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - MUSIC ROOM - NIGHT

Elvis is listening to demo records on the stereo. Before a
song ends, he switches to anoth er. Priscilla sits beside him.
Joe and a few of the guys are there.

                    ELVIS
              (frustrated)
          These songs are all garbage, each
          one's worse than the next.

                    JOE
          Well, these aren't finished yet, E.

He puts on another, and rips it off and throws it down.

                    ELVIS
          Play another one.

He throws another one down.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Turn it off. When are they gonna
          send me a goddamn decent song?
          Cilla, what do you think?

                    PRISCILLA
          I don't know if I like it.

                    ELVIS
          What do you mean, you don't know if
          you like it?
                    PRISCILLA
          I don't know- there's just
          something about it, a catchiness
          that it's missing.

A chair comes hurling, and she moves out of the way as it
smashes into the wall.

                       JOE
          Watch out!

Within seconds, Elvis holds her.

                    ELVIS
          I'm sorry Baby, are you okay? I'm
          sorry, baby. I got my mama's
          temper.

                    PRISCILLA
          Yeah, I'm ok.

                                                     CUT TO:


EXT. LOS ANGELES HOUSE - DAY

The sun shines over the palm trees and LA mansion. We hear
Elvis giving a bible reading.

                    ELVIS (O.C.)
          For you were called to freedom,
          brothers. Only do not use your
          freedom as an opportunity for the
          flesh...


INT. LOS ANGELES HOUSE - DAY

Priscilla walks in to see Elvis sitting, reading some
scriptures from a bible, he reads with great force- all his
charisma and power in his voice. LA babes and various hangers
on sit around him on the floor, listening inten tly.

                    ELVIS
          But through love serve one another.
          For the whole law is fulfilled in
          one word: You shall love your
          neighbor as yourself.

Priscilla sits down to join, trying to go with it.

His reading goes on and on, followers mouth `amen'. Up front
a few female admirers watch in awe. Elvis opens it up for
questions.
A busty young blonde in a low cut top and mini skirt asks a
question, leaning over seductively.

                    HOLLYWOOD BLONDE
          Elvis, do you think the woman at
          the well was a virgin?

                    ELVIS
          Well, Honey, that's something
          you're gonna have to come to a
          conclusion for yourself. I
          personally believe that Jesus was
          attracted to the woman, but that's
          just my opinion.

Priscilla watches her dumb flirting, irritated.

Priscilla tries to ask a question, but her heart isn't in it.

                    PRISCILLA
          Why do you think they were brought
          together?

                    ELVIS
          Well, you could look at it
          different ways.

                    HOLLYWOOD BLONDE
          Well, what do you think, Elvis?

The girl leans closer with a giggle.

                    ELVIS
          I like your perfume, Honey, what's
          that called?

                    HOLLYWOOD BLONDE
          Chanel Number Five.

That's it- Priscilla storms off.


INT. LOS ANGELES HOUSE - BEDROOM - AFTERNOON

Priscilla closes the door and leans against it, hating it
there. She cringes hearing Elvis and the girls laughing
downstairs.

                                         FADE OUT.
EXT. LOS ANGELES HOUSE - DAY

CLOSEUP on backlit palm trees.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. LOS ANGELES HOUSE - DAY

Priscilla walks through and passes a room where Elvis and
LARRY sit and talk.

LARRY, early 30s, a tan, Californian spiritual man sits cross
legged on a floor pillow in gauzy pants.

Elvis looks up at her.

                       ELVIS
             Cilla, this here is Larry, he did
             my hair on the last shoot.

                       PRISCILLA
             Hi.

                       ELVIS
             He knows more about the spiritual
             realm than all the preachers and
             the priests put together...

Larry smiles at her humbly.

                       LARRY
             Well, I don't know about that. But
             I am here to ask questions
             alongside my friend here.

Priscilla looks at him, gives a polite smile and thinks `not
another hanger on'.

                       PRISCILLA
             Well, I'll leave you to it...I'm
             going to start packing to go home.

She walks on.


EXT. GRACELAND - DUSK

Back home.


INT. GRACEL AND - NIGHT

                                                  CUT TO:
An LSD drop goes onto a sugar cube.

                    ELVIS
          Larry says it will help us go
          deeper.

Elvis and Priscilla take the LSD sugar cubes.

Priscilla looks at the lights.

Priscilla touches print wallpaper.

The tiger gives her a secret message!

She looks at Elvis.

                    PRISCILLA
          Oh my god, your shirt is breathing.

They look at all the colors.

They lay on the floor together.


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

Priscilla lies on the bed, coming to.

Elvis reads from his spiritual books to her in bed as his
audience. She's bored after hours of this.

                    ELVIS
          ...and his host of evil spirits
          consumed with him. Man, tired of
          vain wrangling and contending for
          power, longs for those quiet groves
          where olden sages communed with
          their familiars...

He sets down the book, and picks up another.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          There's just so much to learn, I
          need to find more. Cilla, why me?
          What am I supposed to do with all
          this influence?

                    PRISCILLA
          I don't know. But you touch so many
          people.
                    ELVIS
          Baby, you gotta read Cheiro's book
          of numbers, there's no one else
          like him.

She reaches out to him, moving closer, caressing his
shoulder.

He looks at her hand, then to her.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          We have to control our desires
          otherwise they'll control us.

She looks at him, and rolls over. He begins to read on- then
pauses.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Cilla, this is never gonna work if
          you don't share my interests and
          philosophies.

Cl ose on Priscilla.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          I mean there are a lot of women out
          there that would wanna share in
          this with me.

She turns over and tries to pay attention as he reads on, she
cuddles up to him.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Come on, sit up, so you can really
          pay attention.

Elvis reads another passage. Priscilla loses it.

                    PRISCILLA
          I can't stand it! It's driving me
          crazy! I don't wanna hear it
          anymore!

Elvis stares at her.

                    ELVIS
          I see a mad woman--

His words start to slur as his pills take effect.

                    PRISCILLA
          No. A woman with needs, who needs
          to be desired. You can have your
          books and me too.
She looks at him - he reads on.


INT. GRACELAND - HALLWAY - AFTERNOON

Priscilla's walking down the hall, Joe calls up to Elvis.

                    JOE (O.S.)
          Colonel's on the phone!

Priscilla passes by and glimpses Elvis in his office on the
phone, he sounds obedient.

                     ELVIS
          Well I understand, I agree...It is.
          It's a distraction... I'm done with
          the books.

                                            CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND - NIGHT

Priscilla stands with Elvis at a raging bo nfire, as he tosses
in books.

Priscilla holds his hand, he looks at her, ready for a new
chapter. She is relieved and hopeful.


INT. GRACELAND - LIVING ROOM - EVENING

Christmas decorations light up the mantle. Still life of
poinsettias.


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - EVENING

Priscilla comes out of the bathroom in her robe, to see Elvis
in his best suit. Optimistic gospel singers sing about a new
begi nning on the radio. Elvis looks at her.

                    ELVIS
          Cilla, come sit down. Close your
          eyes.

She does, and when she opens them she sees him holding - A
VELVET BOX. She opens it, C.U. a diamond ring.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          We're gonna be married. I told you
          I'd know when the time was right.
                    PRISCILLA
          Really? It's beautiful.

Shocked, she beams at him, as he slips it on her finger.
Priscilla throws her arms around him.

                                             CUT TO:


INT. VEGAS SUITE - DAY

Slow zoom out: Priscilla in her wedding gown, stands under a
flower arch with Elvis cutting into their three-tier cake as
bright camera bulbs flash.

Although not how she wanted it to be, Priscilla is graceful
under the pressure of many cameras a nd press.

                                             CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - AFTERNOON

Elvis carries Priscilla over the threshold.

The crowd around them, including Captain and Mrs. Beaulieu
hold up champagne glasses. He kisses his bride as they clap
and cheer.

                                                       CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

Elvis lays Priscilla down on the big bed, the sun streaming
in.

They're nervous, as if they've never been alone together.

Leaning ov er her, he looks into her eyes.

                     ELVIS
          My wife.

She smiles up at him, full of emotion. He leans down for a
passionate kiss.

                                             FADE TO BLACK:
EXT. GRACELAND - AFTERNOON

Elvis with his arm around Priscilla, the guys and their wives
BBQ by the pool on a summer day. Home movie shot of Priscilla
playing wife, holding a banana cream pie.

They goof around and mug for the camera.

Priscilla and some of the other wives wave as Jerry shoots
super 8 home movies.


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - DAY

Priscilla lays in bed, she feels funny.

She touches her stomach, lost in thought.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Elvis is having a fitting, he's wearing a speedway racing
jumpsuit as his hems are being pinned, when Priscilla walks
in. He looks up at her.

                    ELVIS
          How'd it go? Well?

Priscilla nods in disbelief. He turns to his buddies.

                      ELVIS (CONT'D)
          I'm gonna... I'm gonna be a daddy!?

He picks her up in his arms with a kiss.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Get Vernon on the phone, yo u tell
          him he's gonna be a grey-headed
          Grand-daddy!

Priscilla looks nervous.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          What is it, Satnin'?

They step over to the window as the others step out.

                     ELVIS (CONT'D)
          What happened to that twinkle in
          your eyes?
                    PRISCILLA
          I'm scared.

She breaks down in tears, he holds her close.

                    ELVIS
              (speaks softly)
          Whatever you want to do, I'll back
          you up.

                    PRISCILLA
          I want a baby, just it's so soon.

She cries in his arms.

                    PRISCILLA (CONT'D)
          What about our trip to Europe and
          all of our plans together?

                    ELVIS
          It's alright, we'll go another
          time. We're having a little one.

He comforts her sweetly.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - SUNPORCH OR DINING R OOM - DAY

Priscilla, very pregnant, opens the paper on the breakfast
table: Elvis romances Nancy Sinatra on the set of Speedway -
a shot of them laughing together. She tosses it down.

                                         CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

Slow zoom out: Priscilla stands in profile, she looks at her
full stomach in the mirror. What is in store for them?

                                         CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - BATHROOM - DAY

C.U. Prisc illa's feet step on a scale to check her weight.

She's getting dressed when she hears Elvis call out to her.

                    ELVIS (O.S.)
          Cilla! Cilla come here.
INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' OFFICE - DAY

Priscilla comes in to Elvis on the couch.

                    ELVIS
          Cilla, I've been thinking.

She looks at him, confused.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          You know, I have to have time to
          think and things just haven't been
          right. I think it'd be best for the
          two of us if we took a little time
          apart.

Priscilla, 8 months pregnant looks at him in shock.

                    PRISCILLA
          What are you talking about?!

He looks at her.

                    PRISCILL A
          What did I do?

                    ELVIS
          Oh baby, you don't see. You didn't
          do anything. It's not you. It's
          just that I've been going through
          some things and I just think it'd
          be best if we took a little break.

Priscilla looks at him with a new strength.

                    PRISCILLA
          You've got it. Just tell me when to
          leave.

She turns and walks out.

Priscilla walks down the hall resolute.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND - DAY

Elvis plays football with the guys.

                                                  CUT TO:
INT. GRACELAND - NURSERY - DAY

Priscilla sets up the baby's nursery. She arranges the
dresser, she winds up a music box and unpacks books and
stuffed animals.

Life goes on at Graceland...

                                                   CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND - DAY

Flowers are in full bloom as birds chirp on a sunny morning.

                       PRISCILLA (O.S.)
          Elvis?

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS' BEDROOM - MORNING

Elvis is passed out, Priscilla, next to him in bed, wakes up
startled. She feels the sheets around her are wet. She looks
at the clock: 8 a.m.

Priscilla looks over at Elvis who's asleep.

She taps him gently, but he doesn't wake up.

She moves him more firmly and he startles awake.

                    PRISCILLA
          Elvis wake up.

                       ELVIS
          (asleep)
          Huh?

                    PRISCILLA
          The baby's coming.

                       ELVIS
          You sure?

                       PRISCILLA
          Yes.

She gets up, he leans up, trying to wake up, and picks up the
phone.
                    ELVIS
          Daddy, it's time, you need to send
          the car up.

Elvis, nervous and excited, gets up and yells downstairs in a
frenzy as he finds her suitcase.

                     ELVIS (CONT'D)
          Joe! Jerry! It's time to send the
          car up! Cilla's having the baby!
          It's time!

INT. GRACELAND - BATHROOM - MORNING

Priscilla calmly puts her lashes on. We hear the household in
action downstairs.


EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Their Cadillac pulls up to the back e ntrance of the hospital.

                                          CUT TO:


INT. MEMPHIS HOSPITAL - DAY

Elvis leans close to Priscilla in the bed holding baby LISA
MARIE in her arms next to him. He looks at them lovingly.

                    ELVIS
              (whispers)
          We got ourselves a baby girl,
          Satnin'.

                    PRISCILLA
          We sure do.

She beams at him, eye lashes and mascara perfectly in place.


EXT. MEMPHIS HOSPITAL - DAY

We follow Elvis and Priscilla out of the hospital with their
bab y to the car - a wall of screaming fans rejoice. Some
nurses get photos with him. Elvis winks at Priscilla in the
mayhem.

                                          CUT TO:
INT. GRACELAND - NURSERY - NIGHT

LISA MARIE, around 8-months-old, cries in the crib of her
Graceland bedroom, surrounded by yellow floral wallpaper. A
nurse rushes in to her.

                                           CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - ELVIS'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Silent, in their sound proof room, Priscilla in a little
babydoll nightgown cozies up to Elvis. She kisses him.

                    PRISCILLA
          Elvis, it's been so long.

                     ELVIS
          I know, I just don&'t want to hurt
          you, Baby.

                    PRISCILLA
          Well, I'm ok.

                    ELVIS
          Let's just wait a little...

He cuddles up to her to sleep.

                                           CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND, 1968 - LIVING ROOM - DAY

                                                     CUT TO:

As Priscilla comes home, she gives Lisa Marie, a toddler, an
affectionate hug, and finds Elvis with a young director and
the usual entourage having a fitting.

Elvis wears a tight black leather outfit as they discuss his
TV special.

Elvis turns to Pr iscilla.

                    ELVIS
          Satnin', I don't know, I feel a
          little silly in this outfit. What
          do you think?

She smiles at him reassuringly.
                    PRISCILLA
          You look really good.

                                                    CUT TO:


INT. GRACELAND - EVENING

Elvis plays guitar as we pull back through his iconic lit- up
sign.

Cut to: From over the TV, we see Elvis, Priscilla and the
gang watching the `68 Special.

The phone rings nonstop - it's a hit. Elvis responds to all
ratings and all the offers coming in.

We see a magazine cover: Elvis is back...and schedules,
calendars of tour dates, po sters... Maintenance men put up
Elvis posters at the International.

                                          CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND - DAY

Priscilla stands out front holding Lisa Marie as Elvis and
the guys load up the bus for tour.

They're high-fiving and excited to be on tour.

Elvis kisses Priscilla and Lisa Marie good-bye.

                    PRISCILLA
          When should we come meet you?

                     ELVIS
               (caring)
          Honey, a tour's no place for a
          mother and young'un. But I'll be
          hom e soon as I can.

He joins the guys and waves. (try version without dialog)

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          All right, let's roll it. Get on
          the damn buss.

The bus pulls out and drives off, leaving Priscilla standing,
holding the baby, receding into the distance.

                                                    CUT TO:
INT. GRACELAND - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Priscilla (now a natural brunette) brushes Lisa's hair, age
3, while her nanny buckles a shoe.

                    PRISCILLA
          Ok, Honey, let's go. Come on, you.

Lisa Marie clings to her nanny.

                       LISA MARIE
          No, no!

                    PRISCILLA
          Oh, c'mon, Lisa. Come take a
          picture with Daddy.

                       LISA MARIE
          No!

Lisa Marie clings to the nanny in tears.

Priscilla looks at her and realizes she hasn't been there
enough.

A ph otographer sets up for a portrait.

Priscilla brings Lisa Marie over with her nurse.

They sit with Elvis as a photographer takes their family
portrait. Elvis takes Lisa Marie in his lap lovingly.

Priscilla sits beside Elvis, he turns to her and kisses her
forehead playfully.

Priscilla smiles for the photo, then her face drops - she
watches Lisa Marie run to her nanny.

                                                   CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND GARDEN - DAY

P riscilla pushes Lisa Marie on a swing, and plays with her on
the lawn.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. LIMOUSINE - DAY

Priscilla sits next to Elvis. He wears his sunglasses. They
don't speak, we see the distance between them.
                    PRISCILLA
          Should we meet you in Palm Springs?
          Joe gives Elvis posters to sign.

                    ELVIS
          I think me and the guys are gonna
          go for a few days, just to wind
          down.

She looks at him.

                    PRISCILLA
          Really?

                    ELVIS
          I need you to lighten up.

                    PRISCILLA
          I think I'm going to stay with Lisa
          in L.A. for a little while.

                    ELVIS
          Whatever you want, Baby.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. CAR - LA STREETS - DAY

Priscilla drives alone, hair blowing, listenin g to Santana -
"Oye Como Va."

Zoom out to see her zipping through Los Angeles in a
convertible.

Music continues over:


INT. KARATE STUDIO - DAY

Afternoon light streams in as Priscilla takes a karate lesson
with Mike Stone.

He focuses intently on her, adjusting her arm position.

She moves well and swiftly, deflecting his moves. She feels
their connection and the satisfaction of getting stronger.

                                                   CUT TO:
EXT. LOS ANGELES HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Priscilla and Lisa Marie play with the dog in the garden.

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. LOS ANGELES GARDEN RESTAURANT - EVENING

Priscilla, Mike and some friends have dinner outside, they
talk and laugh surrounded by hanging plants.

He tells her about Kurosawa samurai films. Priscilla is
dressed in a natural cotton dress, it's the 70s...

                     PRISCILLA
          I guess I'm getting a little too
          good an d I punched him straight in
          the nose.

                    MIKE
          My memory's a little blurry
          because, um... you might've shaken
          something a bit loose, but... No.
          It's fine, it's fine.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. VEGAS HOTEL ROOM - EVENING

Elvis leans up in the dark room as a blonde sleeps next to
him under silk sheets.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. VEGAS SHOW - NIGHT

Show lights flare as, slow motion: Elvis, his back to us,
lifts the arms of his cape.

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. LOS ANGELES BATHROOM - DAY

C.U. Priscilla washes her face and looks in the mirror. The
fake lashes and heavy eye makeup are gone.

                                                  CUT TO:
INT. LAS VEGAS RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Priscilla and some of the other wives have dinner in the
Casino's Italian restaurant. The ma�tre d' comes to the
table.

                    MA�TRE D'
          Excuse me, Mrs. Presley. Elvis
          asked that you meet him in the
          suite.

Priscilla looks confused by this.

                    PRISCILLA
          Ok, thank you.

She gets up.

                    PRISCILLA (CONT'D)
          He never goes to his room between
          shows. I'm gonna go see what's up
          and I'll meet you guys aft er.

                    JOANIE
          Ok, see you later.

                                                     CUT TO:


INT. ELVIS' HOTEL ROOM - LAS VEGAS - NIGHT

Priscilla walks into the dark room curiously.

                    PRISCILLA
          Hello? Hey. Is everything ok?

She finds him in bed, waiting for her.

She walks closer and sits on the edge of the bed. He starts
kissing her neck and moves her down on the bed, holding her
arms tightly.

                    ELVIS
          I wanna show you how a real man
          makes love to his woman.

Priscil la looks at him-she doesn't recognize him.

He clutches her arms, tightly pinning her down.

                    PRISCILLA
          What are you doing?... Please stop.
          Just stop. Stop.
Cut back to a wide shot of Elvis as he walks off, Priscilla
puts herself together.

                                                 FADE OUT:


INT. ELVIS' HOTEL ROOM - LAS VEGAS - AFTERNOON

In the dark room, Elvis sleeps, he leans up to see Priscilla.

A strip of light cuts through the curtains. He looks at her,
half awake.

                    PRISCILLA
          I'm leaving.

                    ELVIS
          What do you mean, leaving?


She has her things, she's packed.

                    PRISCILLA
          I'm leaving our marriage.

                     ELVIS
          Ar e you out of your mind? You have
          everything a woman could want. You
          don't mean that Satnin'. You can't
          leave.

She looks at him.

                    ELVIS (CONT'D)
          You mean I've been so blind that I
          didn't see this coming?

                    PRISCILLA
          We're living separate lives.

                    ELVIS
          Have I lost you to another man?

                    PRISCILLA
          You're losing me to a life of my
          own.

He stares at her. Priscilla stands tall, teary eyed.

                    PRISCILLA (CONT'D)
          I have to go. If I stay, I' ll never
          leave.

She heads to the door, looking back at him, teary eyed.
                    ELVIS
          Maybe another place, another time.

She smiles through her heartbreak, and leaves.

                                                   CUT TO:


INT. VEGAS HOTEL HALL - DAY

Priscilla walks down the long hallway alone, leaving the only
life she's known.


INT. GRACELAND - DAY

Priscilla walks through the empty rooms, taking a last look
of where she grew up. It already feels like her past.

                                         CUT TO:


EXT. GRACELAND PORCH - DAY

Priscilla hugs Grandma, Alberta and Patsy good-bye.

They are emotional.


INT. PRISCILLA'S CAR - AFTERNOON

Close on Priscilla's face as she watches the Graceland gates
slowly open.

Tears in her eyes, we feel her fear and excitement.


EXT. GRACELAND - AFTERNOON

Priscilla's car passes through the gates and they close
behind her.

Dolly Parton sings "I Will Always Love You."

Priscilla drives off, leaving Graceland in the distance.




Priscilla
Writers :   Sofia Coppola  Priscilla Presley  Sandra Harmon
Genres :   Romance  Drama
User Comments








