




                          THE SUBSTANCE



                           Written by

                         Coralie Fargeat




"EVERYTHING FLOWS, NOTHING REMAINS"
                       - HERACLITUS




        "DON'T YOU KNOW PUMP IT UP
         YOU'VE GOT TO PUMP IT UP"
                          - DANZEL
                                                    May 3rd 2022


    FADE IN ON A HIGH ANGLE TOP SHOT OF...

    A RAW, UNCOOKED EGG LYING ON A FLAT SURFACE.
    The round yolk stands proudly in the center of the
    transparent and gelatinous egg white.

    A syringe needle enters the frame and slowly approaches the
    egg before planting itself in the middle of the yolk and very
    slowly injects a fluorescent yellow product inside of it.

    After a moment, the egg begins to shake and move as if
    something were happening inside of it.

    Little by little, a small growth begins to emerge on the side
    of the yolk... which grows bigger... and bigger... until it
    starts to form a second egg yolk which emerges out of the
    side of the first one... before finally detaching itself to
    become independent.

    Both egg yolks now stand side by side.

    The second yolk is rounder, shinier, fleshier.

    In other words: more perfect.

    Long beat on both egg yolks which stand side by side.

    BLACK


    The sounds of jackhammers, traffic jams, jigsaws, coming from
    a construction site in the middle of the city...

    We FADE IN on a STATIC TOP SHOT OF...


    EXT. WALK OF FAME SIDEWALK - DAY

    A SIDEWALK MADE UP OF LARGE GREY SLABS. Only one slab appears
    to be missing like a big gaping hole right in the middle of
    the pavement.

    In the same static shot, WORKER'S HANDS appear within the
    frame and start to carefully set in place thin sticks of
    wood, nailing them to one another.

    The linked sticks soon form a wooden frame shaped like a star
    which stands out in the muddy hole of the pavement.

    Little by little, the hands start to place various different
    elements inside the star shaped frame: brass block letters
    which begin to form a name: E...L...I...Z...A...B...E...T...H... S...P...A...R...K...L...E
    Underneath, the small round crest containing the logo of a
    camera appears.





A pink marble slab slides into the golden edges of the wooden
frame... sealing the pink star into the terrazzo pavement
which we now understand to be the famous HOLLYWOOD WALK OF
FAME.

Still in the same static shot with the star in the center of
the frame, workers' hands come in and out making final
tweaks, then remove the plastic protective film. A broom
sweeps back and forth shining up the now finished star - in
the middle of which the golden inscription proudly stands:


                                   ELISABETH SPARKLE


After a moment, still in the same shot, a buzz of excitement
from the crowd and camera flashes start to multiply as the
feet of a YOUNG WOMAN enter the bottom of the frame. Wearing
vertiginously high heels and with a conquering walk, she
poses for the cameras before kneeling down and placing her
hands underneath the star.

More flashes and voices trying to attract the attention of
the lucky lady: "Elisabeth!" "Over here Elisabeth!""Right
here Elisabeth!".

The flurry of feet around the high heels and the way they
move tells a story of their own: flattery, fawning,
happiness, recognition, ambition, success etc.

Then the young woman's feet and those of the crowd gradually
disappear one by one, just like the camera flashes, which
also grow rare and finally disappear, leaving the static
frame empty and silent, with only the star and its name:


                                   ELISABETH SPARKLE


After a long beat on the star and still in the same shot, a
leaf flies across the screen, the wind brushing it past.

Then the feet of passersby which enter and exit the frame,
walking across the star in a pace that quickens as the days
go by and life carries on.

More and more feet enter and exit. A few marks and scratches
appear on the star, the concrete aging little by little as
time goes by, to the pace of more walking, more pedestrians,
tourists, alternating rain and sun, changing fashions,
pigeons landing on the ground, shopping carts being pulled
over it in an uninterrupted flow of everyday foot traffic.

Some feet occasionally stop to look down at Elisabeth's star,
then less and less, then almost none at all as we notice new
stars appearing at the corners of the frame, which start
drawing people's attention away.



                                                              -3-

                                                           ...sc 2


    Finally, the white sneakers of a tourist wearing shorts that
    walk lazily across the now worn and patinated star, clumsily
    dropping a round burger bun, which falls on the ground,
    smearing the star with a large ketchup stain.

    The guy lowers his hand in a half-hearted attempt to clean up
    the stain with a greasy piece of burger paper, then with the
    big sole of his sneaker, thus leaving a large, disgusting red
    trail across the star. The feet walk out of the frame,
    helplessly, above all showing very little interest in
    cleaning the whole thing up.

    The star remains in the center, now aged and stained with the
    red ketchup:


                                       ELISABETH SPARKLE


    Long beat over which we hear the aggressive and exhausting
    cacophony of traffic then, little by little, music is heard
    in the distance, stressed by the dynamic accents of a female
    voice growing louder and clearer:

    Keep moving! That's great! YOU GOT IT!

    Walk it back! Couple more! YOU GOT IT!

    Again from the very top!


    SMASH CUT TO:

3                                                                    3
    INT. TV STUDIO / SPARKLE YOUR LIFE SHOW - DAY
    PAIRS OF FEET WITH FLUORESCENT DANCE LEGGINGS stomping the
    floor.

    A BLINDING WHITE LIGHT.

    A small blinking red dot indicates that this is being filmed
    and recorded.

    We're inside a TV Studio, in the very middle of an aerobics
    class.

    Lights full on and flashy-colored aerobic outfits.

    Fluorescent leotards.

    Muscles tightening under each step.

    Ultra forced smiles.

    Super happy music broadcasting ready-made happiness.




                                                                  -4-

                                                         ...sc 3


In the foreground of this fluorescent group, high on
vitamins, ELISABETH SPARKLE, now close to fifty, leads the
class, with a wide, bright smile.

Her ultra-sculpted body strictly primed against the smallest
bit of flab or excess.

In the background, a large morning show title is visible:

                               SPARKLE YOUR LIFE
                                   With Elisabeth


Keep moving! That's great! You got it!

All the pairs of fluorescent leggings beat up and down in
rhythm like perfect soldiers and Elisabeth never stops
smiling as if her bright smile were etched to her jaw while
she motivates her audience with an energetic voice:

                          ELISABETH
                I know it's hard! Walk it back!
                That's great, couple more ladies!
                Think about your bikini this
                summer! You don't want to look like
                a giant jellyfish on the beach, do
                you? So keep moving! Couple more...
                we're almost there... aaand...

The music ends on a final synchronized movement made by all
the dancers.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                ... give yourselves a hand! That
                was a GREAT workout!

The troupe applauds while Elisabeth faces the camera with a
great big smile:

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                I'll see you next week to work more
                on the lateral abs, those are the
                hardest to sculpt. In the
                meantime... Take care of yourself!

She blows a kiss to the camera.

The cameras stop rolling, and the soundstage lights fade.

Elisabeth's smile fades instantly as she relaxes her body.

She's covered in sweat. Out of breath.

Really out of breath. She winces briefly as she massages her
knee.

An assistant brings her a towel and a bottle of water.




    We follow her from behind...

4                                                                       4
    INT. BACKSTAGE HALLWAY - DAY
    ...as she walks down the long backstage corridor of the tv
    station with an energetic stride.

    EVERYONE she meets or bumps into wishes her a "Happy
    Birthday" with a broad smile. Elisabeth smiles back and
    cheerfully thanks them.

    Walking down the corridor she passes by dozens of framed
    posters displaying her smiling face and shapely body from
    every season of the show:

                                       SPARKLE YOUR LIFE

    On the successive posters, Elisabeth displays the exact same
    bright smile but the colors and looks change as her physical
    appearance alters over time, the hairstyles becoming less and
    less frizzed and her face more and more photoshopped.

    Elisabeth walks to the ladies room at the end of the corridor
    but it turns out to be closed for cleaning. She glances round
    to check she's alone and finally... walks into the men's room
    next door.

5                                                                       5
    TV STUDIO - MEN'S ROOM

    Nobody inside.

    She leans over the sink, splashes water over her face, making
    the most of the moment to refresh herself after the physical
    effort.

    She then enters one of the toilet stalls.

    Static shot of the row of sinks in the empty men's room.

    The neons cast a perfectly white and unchanging light.

    Long, silent beat.

    Soon to be broken by the sudden, loud arrival of A STOUT
    MIDDLE-AGED MAN, his ear glued to a cellphone, face red with
    anger:

                              MAN
                    I don't care if we have to see
                    EVERY FUCKING YOUNG GIRL in town in
                    the next couple of weeks. We need
                    her YOUNG. We need her HOT. And we
                    need her NOW.




                                                                 -6-

                                                         ...sc 5


This is HARVEY, the TV network director. Mid-50s, large belly
and wearing a loose suit, he comes to stand right in front of
the camera under which we guess is an out of frame urinal.
His phone wedged between his ear and shoulder he continues
his logorrhoea while unbuttoning his pants to take a piss:

                          HARVEY
                I mean, how the old bitch has
                managed to stay this long in the
                first place is a fucking mystery!
                    (the person at the other
                     end of the line tries to
                     say something but is
                     immediately cut off)
                Oscar winner my ass! When was that?
                Back in the 30s for KING KONG?!
                    (he"shakes" himself off)
                I don't give a fuck what we
                promised her! This is TV, not a
                charity! So find me somebody NEW.
                NOW.

He flushes the urinal and closes his fly.

                          HARVEY (CONT'D)
                Did you know that women's fertility
                starts to decrease from the age of
                25?

He leaves without washing his hands....

                          HARVEY (CONT'D)
                Yeah I know...(he chuckles)...How
                old is Elisa?

His voice drifts away as the bathroom door slowly closes with
the automatic closing system.

                               HARVEY (CONT'D)
                ....Ha ha so hurry up!

His laughter trailing off in the distance until the room is
completely silent again.

A beat on the empty room.

The white sinks.

The neon lights casting the unchanging light.

Then, the sound of a toilet flushing.

The door to one of the stalls finally opens slowly and
Elisabeth walks out.

She remains still for a moment in the middle of the
immaculate room, her reflection infinitely repeating in the
mirrors in front and behind her.


                                                              -7-
THE SUBSTANCE    -   May 3rd 2022
                                                                ...sc 5


    Her fluorescent leggings now seem ridiculously out of place.

    She walks very calmly towards a sink, washes her hands slowly
    and knowingly, her eyes focused on the water flowing out of
    the tap... then she stops the water in one swift gesture.

    She looks up slowly...

    A beat, alone, facing her reflection in the mirror...


                               ELISABETH
    The noise of plates and glasses that progressively grows
    louder...

                                                          FADE IN:

6                                                                         6
    INT. RESTAURANT - DAY
    Greasy fingers that rip the head off of a shrimp: SHLACK!

    The thick sweaty nape of a man's neck, on which a fly
    sporadically lands. A pudgy hand tries to flick it away.

    It's Harvey's hand. Facing camera, he is in the midst of
    another logorrheic monologue as he peels and shells the juicy
    shrimp before stuffing them into his mouth...slurp...in
    between two words...

                              HARVEY
                    ...but it's like when you've got
                    someone farting on screen...
                    slurp... People LOVE that! I'd
                    rather talk about RENOIR or GAUGUIN
                    but slurp... that's how it is.
                    C'est la vie... People are just...
                    people. And I have to give people
                    what they want. slurp... That's
                    what keeps the shareholders happy.
                    slurp... And let me tell you
                    something: people always ask for
                    something NEW. slurp... RENEWAL is
                    inevitable. It's nature's way. You
                    either RENEW or you disappear.

    "RENEW" seems to explode out of his mouth in a splutter of
    shrimp.

    He stares at a young waitress' ass, which seems to RENEW his
    appetite.

                              HARVEY (CONT'D)
                    At 50, it stops. And that's not me
                    saying so. That's biology.



                                                                     -8-

                                                        ...sc 6


We finally discover Elisabeth, facing him.

                          ELISABETH
                What stops?

A beat.

                              HARVEY
                What?

                          ELISABETH
                What stops?

                          HARVEY
                ...? The... you know the... the...

Suddenly really uncomfortable, he makes a circular gesture
with his hand...

Then he brushes it all aside with a sweeping gesture.

                          HARVEY (CONT'D)
                Anyway! Lots of wonderful things
                await you afterwards, you'll
                finally have time to enjoy your
                private life. Kids, they put a big
                smile on your face and you forget
                about everything else!

                          ELISABETH
                I don't have kids.

A tiny, empty beat in Harvey's dull eyes.

He jumps to his feet grabbing his phone, looking terribly
busy, and calls out to a MAN (60) at the back of the room.

                          HARVEY
                GEORGE!
                    (to Elisabeth)
                I've gotta run.

He walks away, hitting on the young waitress as he passes her
by and opening his arms towards a man in his sixties at the
back of the room, grandiloquent:

                          HARVEY (CONT'D)
                GEORGE!! These ratings are insane!
                You're a fucking genius!

Elisabeth is left alone sitting at the table.

Inside the wine glass, which she's barely touched, the fly is
drowning. It's wriggling all around desperately fighting to
escape this sweet, liquid trap...




                                                             -9-

                                                                    ...sc 6


    Elisabeth stares at the fly, which twitches as if having an
    epileptic fit, its movements growing slower... and slower...
    until finally it is completely immobilized.

    Dead and disgusting.

                                                          DISSOLVE TO:

7                                                                             7
    OMITTED

8                                                                             8
    INT. CRAIG SILVER MANAGEMENT OFFICE - DAY

    A huge picture of Elisabeth with an ultra bright smile,
    praising the merits of a whitening toothpaste:

                         WITH TOOTHBRITE (check clearance)
                            YOU GOT IT!

    The smile is swallowed up as a hand closes the magazine
    containing the ad.

                              CRAIG
                    TOOTHBRITE is ending your
                    ambassador's contract.

    CRAIG SILVER, 40, sits behind a big desk, facing Elisabeth.

                              ELISABETH
                    But we just renewed it a month ago!

                              CRAIG
                    I know. But they are within their
                    right to do so considering the
                    "significant change in your public
                    notoriety" with the end of your
                    show...

    Elisabeth, speechless, her eyes glistening with the tears she
    is trying to hold back.

                              ELISABETH
                    So what's our next move? Maybe a
                    reality show? Or I was thinking
                    even a cooking show...or why not
                    a...

    She stops when she sees Craig, visibly ill at ease, wiggling
    about in his seat.

                              CRAIG
                    Listen... I know this is not the
                    best moment to tell you this but...
                    we are forced to cut back on the
                    number of clients we represent at
                    the agency and...



                                                                         - 10 -

                                                              ...sc 8


    ...

                              ELISABETH
                    "We"? Who is "we"?

                              CRAIG
                    Well you know... CRAIG SILVER
                    MANAGEMENT.

                              ELISABETH
                    Sorry what's your name again?

                                  CRAIG
                    What?

                              ELISABETH
                    What's your name?

                              CRAIG
                    C'mon...Lizzie

                              ELISABETH
                    What's your fucking name?

                              CRAIG
                    Craig Silver-

    A beat on his contrite face. We hear the door slam violently

9                                                                       9
    EXT. AVENUE - DAY
    Elisabeth is at the wheel of her car.

    We can almost hear the billion thoughts firing through her
    mind, knocking back and forth.

    She's speeding along a road lined with palm trees.

    The noise of the traffic seems to be getting louder and
    louder.

    She drives past a big billboard flaunting her photo:

                                       WITH TOOTHBRITE

                                       YOU GOT IT!
    She turns her head, trying to see the new billboard that two
    workers are putting up in her plac-

    WHAM!!!      A car hurtles right out of a crossroad and
    SMASHES straight into her car. The window explode as the car
    spins violently, tires screeching against the asphalt.




                                                                 - 11 -

                                                            ...sc 10

10                                                                   10
     INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY
     Elisabeth is in the ER.

     She's sitting on the side of a bed wearing a disposable paper
     hospital gown tied up in the back, with her legs dangling in
     front of her. A slew of x-rays are on a backlit x-ray viewer.

     A DOCTOR comes in accompanied by a YOUNG MALE NURSE.

                               DOCTOR
                     Well it's your lucky day Ms.
                     Sparkle! We've X-rayed you from
                     head to toe and there's not even as
                     much as a cracked molar. So you're
                     good to go!

     The young male nurse hands him a file. The nurse is wearing a
     surgical mask that only allows us to see his piercing eyes of
     an extreme azure blue.

     He appears to be stunningly handsome.

     Elisabeth is in her own distant and muted bubble while the
     doctor goes over her file, checking everything for the last
     time and signing off on the paperwork.

                               DOCTOR (CONT'D)
                     ...vaccinations...ok... not
                     currently on any medication... By
                     the way my wife is a huge fan...
                     blood type... date of birth... oh,
                     it's your birthday happy birthd-

     He doesn't have time to finish� Elisabeth bursts into tears.

     Long beat on Elisabeth, hunched over and shaken by hiccups as
     she sobs.

                               ELISABETH
                         (muttering to herself)
                     It's over...

     The doctor looks at her, uncomfortable.

                               ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                     It's all over...

     A long awkward beat.

     Beep beep - the doctor glances at his beeper clipped to his
     belt.

                               DOCTOR
                         (relieved for the excuse
                          to get away)
                     An emergency, I have to run.
                     Have a good... euh ...bye.


                                                               - 12 -
 
                                                      ...sc 10


He leaves. Elisabeth remains sitting on the examination
table.

After a long moment, she wipes the tears from her face and is
about to stand u-

                          MALE NURSE (O.S.)
                One moment.

She turns around, surprised to see that the nurse is still
there. His striking, piercing blue eyes looking out from
behind his mask.

                          MALE NURSE (CONT'D)
                There's just one last exam to
                perform.

                          ELISABETH
                Oh? Didn't he say I was good to g-

He separates the open flaps of her paper hospital gown and
places his stethoscope on her back.

While he moves the stethoscope around her back, we notice
that he has a small strawberry birthmark on his forearm.

We hear noises coming from inside her body, amplified by the
instrument: Boom boom... boom boom...boom boom....

His hands start to palpate along her backbone, the fingers of
his latex gloves following the length of the prominent
vertebrae, stopping and palpating each vertebra with great
attention, as if his probing fingers were measuring the
resistance of her spinal column.

Elisabeth is taken aback by this unusual exam...

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                Is there a problem...?

                           MALE NURSE
                    (still focusing on her
                     spine)
                No it's perfect, you're a good
                candidate.
                    (catching himself)
                I'm mean, you're good to go.

He goes to the coat rack to take her coa- the coat rack sways
and falls to the floor. Oops, sorry let me get that... he
rummages among the coats and finally picks up her yellow coat
which he places on her lap.

                          MALE NURSE (CONT'D)
                Have a good day. I wish you the
                best.

He leaves and Elisabeth is left there, in silence.


                                                             - 13 -

                                                           ...sc 10


     Confused by what just happened.

     Just the noise of the swinging doors Thump-clomp, thump-
     clomp, which finally come to a stop.

11                                                                    11
     EXT. HOSPITAL. - DAY
     Elisabeth walks out of the hospital. A beat to breathe in the
     fresh air.

     An ear-splitting chorus of car horns and traffic.

     She puts her hands in her coat pockets as if to comfort
     herself.

     She frowns, feeling something inside her pocket.

     She takes her hand out, holding... a folded paper packet with
     something inside. She unfolds it and finds a USB stick, which
     she is manifestly discovering for the very first time.

     Written down on the back of the stick:

                                        THE SUBSTANCE

     Scribbled on the crumpled piece of paper: "It changed my
     life."

     She takes a moment to look at the USB stick amidst the racket
     caused by the traffic...

                               MAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
                     ...Lizzie??... Lizzie Sparkle??

     She looks up: A RATHER UNPREPOSSESSING-LOOKING MAN in his
     fifties, with just a crown of hair left on his balding head,
     is looking at her with a wide smile on his face as he adjusts
     his glasses on his nose.

                               MAN
                     OMG I can't believe it!

     An embarrassed silence, she visibly doesn't recognize him.

                               MAN (CONT'D)
                     ...Fred from 10th grade homeroom!

     ...

     She widens her eyes, making us understand that time has not
     been kind to him...

                               ELISABETH
                     ...Oh... Fred...of course...

     He passes his hand over his bald head.



                                                                  - 14 -
 
                                                      ...sc 11


                          FRED
                Yeah... baldness runs in the family
                - no escaping it.

                          ELISABETH
                Oh no, that's not what I mea...

                          FRED
                You, however, haven't changed!
                You're still the most beautiful
                girl in the whole wide world! I've
                followed your career, what a
                success! Wow wow WOW!

She smiles without letting anything show.

                          FRED (CONT'D)
                And the funny thing is my mom used
                to buy your toothpaste. So every
                time I went home for Christmas, I
                would think about you when I
                brushed my teeth.

                          ELISABETH
                Oh, that's...

                          FRED
                She's dead now.

...creepy.

A taxi pulls up in front of them.

                          FRED (CONT'D)
                Oh that's for me. Hey! Why don't we
                go out for a drink some time now
                that we've "reconnected"?!

                          ELISABETH
                Oh uh... I'm kind of...

                          FRED
                Oh, I'm stupid... of course you're
                super busy...

                          ELISABETH
                    (being polite)
                But why don't you give me your
                card... you never know!

                          FRED
                Oh! I'm not a "card" type of guy
                but...

He rummages through his pockets and takes out a pen and some
sheets of paper with what are visibly medical test results.




                                                          - 15 -

                                                              ...sc 11


                               FRED (CONT'D)
                     What do we have here... ok this
                     will do.
                         (he scribbles on one of
                          the sheets)
                     Please don't look at my cholesterol
                     levels, they're a disaster...

     He rips off the end of the paper with his number written on
     it... and it flies off and lands in a puddle of mirky water.

                               FRED (CONT'D)
                     Oh God...
                         (clumsily picking it up
                          and wiping it)
                     Programmer's hands... Aren't much
                     good away from the keyboard!

     The taxi honks. He slaps the paper into Elisabeth's hand.

                               FRED (CONT'D)
                     Now you've got it!

     He chuckles, proud of his joke and jumps into the taxi as he
     mimes the telephoning gesture: "call me!"

12                                                                   12
     INT. ELISABETH'S APARTMENT / LIVING ROOM - END OF AFTERNOON
     Elisabeth is standing in front of an oversized picture window
     with a magnificent view of the city in a spacious, elegantly
     decorated living room.

     Hanging on the wall opposite the window is a huge full-length
     framed poster of her. She's sporting a sexy pose in a blue
     leotard with a big conquering smile on her face.

     A bouquet of flowers still wrapped in plastic sits on the
     table. On the small card attached we read: "Thank you for all
     these years with us. You were amazing!". The word "were"
     seems to stand out like a punch in the face.

     Elisabeth plugs the USB stick into her television screen and
     sits on the couch.

     AN ENTIRELY BLACK SCREEN

     After a moment, a MALE VOICE : it is deep and slow.
     Underneath a very slight, almost inaudible crackling sound.

     Have you ever dreamt of a better version of yourself?

     The screen remains completely black as the voice continues:

     We are merely the expression of a genetic code that freezes
     at a precise moment.

     But your DNA conceals billions of other possibilities.


                                                                 - 16 -
 
                                                        ...sc 12


Inside of you, there is another you. Or should I say,
billions of other "yous."

One single injection unlocks your DNA, starting a new
cellular division, that will release another version of
yourself.

Younger. More beautiful. More perfect.

This is...

The title appears full screen at the same time as the voice
pronounces:



        THE SUBSTANCE
A long silent beat over the title.

It then disappears. Silent beat on the BLACK screen.

And at long last, an image...

A yellow ball (like blu tack) upon a white surface
(high angle top shot like in a lab demonstration).

You are the matrix.
The ball is slightly dented and irregular.

Two male hands enter the frame and start slowly pulling on a
section of the blu tack ball.

Everything comes from YOU.

The hand pulls... and pulls... until the piece detaches
itself from the original ball.

And everything IS you.

THE HAND ROLLS THE NEW PIECE TO FORM A PERFECTLY ROUNDED
SECOND BALL WHICH NOW SITS NEXT TO THE ORIGINAL, THAT IN
CONTRAST SEEMS ALL THE MORE IMPERFECT.

This is simply... a better version of yourself.

Each hand presents one ball on its open palm:

You just have to share.

The left hand closes over the left ball making it disappear.

One week for one.



                                                           - 17 -

                                                              ...sc 12


     Before re-opening while closing the other hand.

     And one week for the other.

     Both hands re-open. Silent beat on the two small balls side
     by side.

     A perfect balance of 7 days each.

     The one and only thing not to forget...



                          YOU ARE ONE
     BACK TO THE TWO BALLS.


     YOU CAN'T ESCAPE FROM YOURSELF
     The two hands slam the two balls together-SMACK!

     THE VIDEO ENDS.

     Elisabeth remains still for a moment, watching the screen in
     silence.

     She then removes the USB stick, heads into the kitchen... and
     throws it into the trash can.

     BLACK

     A muffled, distorted noise as if we were underwater...

                                                        FADE IN:

13                                                                     13
     INT. COCKTAIL LOUNGE BAR - NIGHT
     EXTREME CLOSE UP SHOT OF AN OLIVE FLOATING inside a
     transparent liquid.

     The olive is suddenly pierced by a wooden toothpick in a
     muffled, distorted sound, like a heart pierced by a sword,
     pieces of its slashed flesh floating in the liquid.

     Back to   a medium shot which shows the olive swimming inside a
     Martini   glass... Which Elisabeth brings to her lips... and
     empties   in one gulp... before putting the empty glass down...
     next to   the two others on the bar counter in front of her.

     In a wide shot we discover that she is sitting at a bar, a
     cosy speak-easy type cocktail lounge.

     The mood is dark and classy, blanketed with black-velvet
     surfaces and jazz music.


                                                                   - 18 -
 
                                                            ...sc 13


      She glances around, looking at the different couples hidden
      in the alcoves on dark couches...

      It's late.

      She's alone.

      She signals the barman to serve her another drink.

14A                                                                   14A
      INT. APARTMENT / LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
      THE BIG FRAMED PHOTO OF ELISABETH SMILING in the living room
      plunged in darkness.

      The sound of somebody throwing up.

      On the table, the roses are now wilted, asphyxiated in their
      plastic prison.

14B                                                                   14B
      INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

      From the dark long corridor, we can see Elisabeth kneeling
      over the toilet.

      She stands up and goes to the sink. Splashes water on her
      face, then carelessly wipes it with a towel making her makeup
      run; she stares for a moment at her reflection in the mirror.

      The black lines of mascara running down her cheeks make her
      look even more like a sad clown.

14C                                                                   14C
      INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

      Elisabeth stands in front of the big picture window. She
      stays there looking at the city lights.

      The lights continue to shine. The world continues to spin.

      Without her.

      Her eyes dart back and forth between different objects and
      keepsakes lined up on the edge of the window sill. An Oscar
      has pride of place among the other statues and awards, framed
      photos and souvenirs where we see her smiling surrounded by
      various people.

      She picks up a snow globe with a small figurine version of
      herself inside. The tiny figurine stands on a small pink
      star, a replica of the Hollywood Walk of Fame.

      She shakes the globe: golden confetti floats around inside
      the liquid, creating a magical golden rain around Elisabeth's
      figurine replica.




                                                                   - 19 -
  
                                                           ...sc 14C


      A suspended moment on the sparkling confetti lingering
      weightlessly...

      All of a sudden, Elisabeth turns around and hurls the globe
      with all her strength against the wall: BAM!!! The globe
      smashes and shatters into pieces against the framed poster,
      splattering everything in the process.

      The smiling face on the poster is now dribbling the slimy,
      transparent liquid; the glass is cracked right over one of
      her eyes, as if she had gotten punched in the face.

      Elisabeth grabs the wilted flowers from the table, heads to
      the kitchen and...

14D                                                                   14D
      INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT
      ... throws them in the trash can.

      BLACK

      A long silent beat.

      CLACK - LOW ANGLE SHOT FROM INSIDE THE TRASH CAN WHICH OPENS
      AGAIN- revealing Elisabeth's face framed by the black can.

      She leans over, sticks her hand inside the black bucket...

      ... and retrieves the USB stick, covered in sticky residue.

15A                                                                   15A
      INT. BEDROOM. NIGHT

      Elisabeth sits on the side of her bed on the phone, lit only
      by the small bedside lamp whose soft glow lights her face.

      The sound of the line ringing. Slow. Regular. The line
      crackles slightly.

      After numerous rings, someone finally picks up the phone.

      A moment of silence.

      Then a masculine voice, deep and cavernous:

      Yes?

      The sound of heavy breathing on the other end of the line.

      Elisabeth hesitates, then finally jumps in:

                                ELISABETH
                      I'd like to... order?

      A beat. Then the deep, terse, deadpan voice:

      Address?


                                                                   - 20 -
  
                                                           ...sc 15A


                                ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                      1057 North Beverly Drive.

      Please note: 35 North Byron Alley.(TBD)

      Caught unprepared, she grabs a pen and scribbles the address
      on the palm of her hand.

      The line goes dead.

      Elisabeth remains for a moment without moving on her bed.

      BLACK

15B                                                                   15B
      INT. BEDROOM / CORRIDOR - DAY
      A steady whirring sound that grows louder and louder...

      Bits of light appear and disappear... Elisabeth opens her
      eyes with a start.

      She realizes that she fell asleep on her bed still dressed.
      She's dazzled by the sunlight that floods her bedroom.

      She sits up and swings her legs over the side of the bed...
      ouch... a major hangover.

      She walks down the hallway dragging her feet where A CLEANING
      LADY IN HER FIFTIES is running the vacuum.

                                ELISABETH
                      Hello Maria.

                                MARIA
                      Hello Ma'am.

16                                                                     16
      INT. SHOWER. DAY

      HISSSSSSSSSSSS TOP SHOT OF THE POWERFUL JET OF WATER spraying
      Elisabeth's head and back, flattening her hair, water
      streaming down her numb body. She looks up and the jet slowly
      washes away the traces of makeup on her face.

                                                        CUT TO:

17                                                                     17
      INT. KITCHEN / LIVING ROOM - DAY

      SISSSSSSSSS - AN EFFERVESCENT ASPIRIN TABLET drops into a
      glass of water.

      Elisabeth sits at the kitchen table, wearing a white terry
      cloth bathrobe.

      The bubbles rise to the surface of the glass.



                                                                   - 21 -
  
                                                            ...sc 17


      In the background in the living room, we see Maria vacuuming
      slowly, crossing the frame in a straight line from left to
      right.... then from right to left... like a small foosball
      figurine moving straight in its axis.

      Elisabeth picks up the newspaper that has been dropped on the
      table with the mail, and quickly leafs through it.

      She can't help but take a quick look at the classified ads...
      where she discovers the casting call to replace her.

      A moment to regroup... then she throws the paper into the
      wastepaper basket and sifts through the rest of her mail -
      advertising fliers, a few bills... and stops on a white
      envelope with her address written by hand. The envelope is
      sealed with an "S" on the back. No stamp, no postmark, as if
      someone had dropped it off there.

      Elisabeth opens the envelope, and finds enclosed a white
      plastic card that is simply marked: 503.

      She looks at the back of the card: nothing.

      She stares at the card for a moment... then at the palm of
      her hand with the address almost entirely erased by her
      shower.

      In the background, the excruciatingly insistent noise of the
      vacuum cleaner

18A                                                                   18A
      EXT. STREET (ELISABETH AREA). DAY
      We follow Elisabeth from behind with a hand-held camera as
      she walks down the street.

      Her mustard yellow coat is a spot of color that keeps us
      riveted to her and her gait.

18B                                                                   18B
      EXT. STREET (LESS NICE STREET). DAY

      Still following Elisabeth from behind as she walks (her
      surroundings are a little less pleasant)

19A                                                                   19A
      EXT. AVENUE / DEPOSIT BUILDING (SKID ROW). DAY

      Elisabeth arrives at the given address: on the avenue, a
      small seedy metal shutter door without any signs or
      nameplates.

      Just a small magnetic card reader on the side of the door.
      She waves her card and the shutter starts to rise...then gets
      stuck, halfway open. She waves her card at it again but the
      shutter remains half shut. She looks around... before
      crouching down to pass under the shutter...



                                                                   - 22 -
  
                                                                ...sc 19B

19B                                                                       19B
      INT. DEPOSIT / LONG NARROW CORRIDOR - DAY
      She's now in a long narrow decrepit hallway. On the other
      side of the shutter door, a notification flyer from a pest
      control company.

      Nice...

      She goes down the long corridor..., which leads to...

19C                                                                       19C
      INT. DEPOSIT / LOBBY

      ...a small, windowless lobby, harshly lit with neon lights,
      with letter boxes, like post office boxes, on the wall.

      Elisabeth scans the letter boxes... One at the bottom is
      marked 207... and then another box, higher up, is marked 503.

      She waves her card to unlock her letter box. BEEP.

                                                             CUT TO:

20                                                                         20
      INT. APARTMENT / LIVING ROOM - END OF THE DAY

      A CARDBOARD BOX MARKED 503 sits on the coffee table.

      Everything is now tidy and silent in the apartment.

      Elisabeth sits on the couch, looking at the parcel.

      She finally opens the box and starts taking out what she
      finds inside. She lays everything out on the table.

      A small yellow fluorescent vial upon which is written:

                                       ACTIVATOR
                            (single use/discard after use)

      A plastic kit containing elements that look like needles and
      syringes with the label:

                                         STABILIZER
                                         other self

      Something which would appear to look like a sewing kit:
      surgical scissors. Compresses. Surgical thread. Disinfectant.

      A transparent perfusion pipe with a label marked SWITCH.

      And two transparent perfusion bags filled with a thick yellow
      liquid upon which are written:




                                                                       - 23 -
  
                                                                    ...sc 20


                               FOOD                    FOOD

                               MATRIX                OTHER SELF

                          ----------- 7           ----------- 7

                          ----------- 6           ----------- 6

                          ----------- 5           ----------- 5

                          ----------- 4           ----------- 4

                          ----------- 3           ----------- 3

                          ----------- 2           ----------- 2

                          ----------- 1           ----------- 1

                      ---SWITCH---                   ---SWITCH---


      At the bottom of the box, a small white note card with
      instructions and icons:

      �YOU ACTIVATE� - only once (intravenous)

      �YOU STABILIZE� - everyday (intramuscular)

      �YOU SWITCH� - every 7 days without exception. She turns the
      card over and reads the inscription on it:

                                    REMEMBER YOU ARE ONE

      A moment on the equipment spread out on the coffee table.

21A                                                                       21A
      INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT
      Elisabeth, naked, faces her bathroom mirror.

      She looks at the sight the mirror reflects back at her
      without clothing and makeup.

      Her breasts. Her belly. Her face.

      She slides her hand over her beauty mark with its singular
      shape next to her belly button.

      She's still a very beautiful woman but doesn't seem happy by
      what she sees. We can sense a hidden anguish. Generalized.
      Immense.

      Basically she's just aging... and everything and everyone
      around her leads her to believe it is the end of the world.
      The end of her world.

      As she looks at her reflection in the mirror, we hear the
      man's deep resonating voice:


                                                                       - 24 -
  
                                                              ...sc 21A


      You are the matrix.

      On the side of the sink, the equipment is carefully placed
      upon a small silver tray.

      Everything comes from YOU.

      And everything IS YOU.

      She picks up the syringe and fills it with the fluorescent
      yellow liquid from the small ACTIVATOR vial.

      This is simply... a better version of yourself.

      She looks at herself in the mirror again.

      Then she takes the tourniquet strap provided with her kit.

      She makes a tourniquet on her arm, which she tightens with
      her teeth.

      She disinfects her arm with a cotton pad soaked in alcohol.

      She taps her forearm to find a vein.

      We can sense she's nervous. She ends up taking a deep breath,
      sinks the needle into the vein and slowly empties the
      contents of the syringe.

      She waits for a few moments, tensed.

      Nothing happens.

      A beat. She breathes in deeply.

      Still nothing.

      She sighs... This is bullshi-

      She turns away from the mirror and everything suddenly starts
      spinning. She falls...
21B                                                                   21B
      BAM! head first against the floor tiles.

      She's folded in two on the floor, violent abdominal pains
      shooting straight through her stomach. The pain is
      excruciating.

      Her skin seems to come alive all of a sudden. As if something
      were growing and moving underneath it.

      She starts to sweat. Her eyes fill with sheer terror.

      The pain is now unbearable.

      The growth under her skin.




                                                                   - 25 -
  
                                                              ...sc 21A


      Sounds grow muffled. As if she were hearing inside of
      herself. There is something moving... evolving...

      Extreme close up of her pupil dilating...

      ...Deforming...

      ...DIVIDING ITSELF INTO TWO inside her iris...

      She curls up into a foetal position under the unbearable
      pain.

      Her eye rolls upwards and for a moment we fleetingly see... A
      SECOND EYE INSIDE THE CAVITY before it disappears behind the
      ocular globe...

      On her back, her skin deforms itself and then starts rippling
      like waves, as if something strange were moving inside of
      her.

      The skin covering her spine starts to crack... and split
      open. Under the opening skin... we see a SECOND SPINE...

      As if ANOTHER BODY were locked up inside her own body.

      The skin parts in two and lets THE SECOND BODY APPEAR.

      The sound is muffled, her pupil dilates like a black hole, a
      ringing noise creeps up in her ears, growing more and more
      deafening...

      We enter her pupil, a tunnel of fluorescent light moving at
      full speed towards a small white spot which grows bigger and
      bigger with AMAZING SPEED...

      BLACK


21C                                                                   21C
      Silence.

      A long beat.

      Very long beat.

      Of silence.

      And darkness.

      And suddenly.

      The subliminal shot of a heart on fire, blazing.

      Boom BOOM... Boom BOOM... Boom BOOM...

      The image returns, slowly but surely.



                                                                  - 26 -
  
                                                     ...sc 21A


Flickering like the batting of eyelids...

Slowly coming back to life...

At first we only see white tiles.

We soon realize that this is Elisabeth's POV, waking up on
the bathroom floor. Her vision is blurry, she is trying to
focus...

She turns to the other side and sees...

Elisabeth... lying on her back, unconscious on the white
tiles.

... ?

If Elisabeth is lying down on the ground in front of her...
Who is she??

Her POV: She lifts up her hand into her field of vision. The
nerve network is still being constructed making its blue
veins bulge slightly. The edges of her fingernails perspire a
mixture of fluid and blood.

She heads towards the sink and faces the steamed up mirror.
She attempts to focus. She wipes the mirror with her hand to
take the condensation away and discovers... A MAGNIFICENT
YOUNG WOMAN IN HER TWENTIES... perfectly formed... incredibly
beautiful... and young.

Her features are different from Elisabeth's, but there is a
distant family resemblance.

She looks completely dazed.

All the sounds are muffled as if she were in cotton wool. As
if she can hear the inside of her body.

She approaches the mirror to look at her eye. She pulls down
her lower eyelid: inside of her iris, traces of yellow
fluorescent pigment are resorbing and forming a few small,
irregular yellow stains.

She slides her hand over her face, her hard nipples, filled
with life... Super hard pointy nipples like when she was
twenty.

She notices that her singular beauty mark is now on her right
breast, while her tummy is unblemished.

She turns to one side, exaggerates the curve of her back upon
which her long hair cascades down... like a Venus emerging
from the water... a creature of almost supernatural beauty.

She looks down... and sees her old self lying on the floor.

The matrix.


                                                             - 27 -

                                                           ...sc 21A


      She's lying still, her eyes frozen, staring into emptiness...

      ...in a puddle of fluid and blood.

      The matrix's back along her spine shows the traces of a slot-
      like opening, already half closed.

      As if the shock of this vision were too violent for her,
      everything spins and she throws up a yellow, fluorescent
      liquid on the white tiled floor.

      She then tries to get ahold of herself... the matrix is pale
      and can't seem to breathe anymore.
21D                                                                   21D
      She opens up the sewing kit and forces herself to get it
      together. She starts sewing up the slit in Elisabeth's back.

      The needle and thread start suturing the huge wound along her
      spine...

      Once the suturing is finished, she picks up the perfusion bag
      upon which is written:"FOOD/MATRIX" and sticks the
      intravenous needle into Elisabeth's arm.

      A small bubble floats up through the perfusion pipe...

      After a beat... the matrix starts breathing again and the
      thick yellow liquid begins to empty very slowly along the
      gradation of the plastic bag which indicates

                                            FOOD

                                            MATRIX

                                         ----------- 7

                                         ----------- 6

                                         ----------- 5

                                         ----------- 4

                                         ----------- 3

                                         ----------- 2

                                         ----------- 1

                                         ---SWITCH---


      She sits down on the edge of the bathtub. She's shaking.
      Gathering her thoughts.

      The camera tracks back slowly and reveals them side by side
      for the first time together.

      The MATRIX is spread out on the tiled floor.


                                                                  - 28 -
  
                                                             ...sc 21A


     SHE, the "new she," is sitting on the side of the bathtub.

     Now they will have to share...

     She stays silent and immobile for a moment.

22                                                                      22
     INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT
     NewElisabeth at the kitchen table in her bathrobe.

     We see her sitting from behind, perfectly still.

     Then we hear her start to make guttural sounds, which run up
     and down the scale: bass / treble / bass hhh...hel...
     Hiiii...heee...llo...oooo... which trigger a coughing fit.

     She spits something into a napkin: fluorescent yellow mucus.

     She tries again, this time her voice is clearer:
     Hello...hello...hello

23                                                                      23
     OMITTED

24                                                                      24
     INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

     TOP SHOT on NewElisabeth lying in the large bed, staring at
     the ceiling.

     A million things are spinning inside her head.

     She finally closes her eyes.

     After a few moments, we see her turning over.

     And over again.

     After a while, she turns the light on and gets out of bed.

                                                          CUT TO:

25                                                                      25
     INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

     The bathroom light switches back on, revealing the matrix in
     stasis on the floor, who hasn't moved an inch.

     NewElisabeth looks at her for a moment. She then kneels and
     tilts her very carefully to lay her on her back.

     She takes a terry towel which she folds in four and gently
     places underneath the matrix's head.

     She readjusts her position to make her comfortable. Gently
     puts her hair back in place and brings her ear close to her
     face to check her breathing.


                                                                    - 29 -
 
                                                              ...sc 25


      Everything is fine. After a beat looking down at her... she
      turns off the light again.

      BLACK

                                                         FADE IN:

26                                                                      26
      INT/EXT. BEDROOM WINDOW / PALM TREE - DAY
      A SHINY-LEAVED PALM TREE standing out against the BLUE SKY.

27                                                                      27
      INT. TOP SHOT SHOWER. DAY

      HISSSSSSSSSSSSS - THE POWERFUL JET OF WATER sprays down the
      small of NewElisabeth's back, flattening her long blond hair.
      She runs her hands along her waist ... her belly ... her
      thighs ... as if to appreciate her new shapes and forms.

28A                                                                    28A
      INT. BATHROOM. DAY

      POV FLOOR LEVEL - naked feet come out of the shower and walk
      past her former body still in stasis on the bathroom floor; a
      few drops of water land on the matrix.

      She wraps her bathrobe around her and stands in front of the
      mirror. Facing the mirror, her voice is now perfectly clear
      and controlled:

                                    NEW-ELISABETH
                      ...HELLO.

      Strange feeling discovering her new voice.

      She starts drying her hair off with a towel. A slight
      tinnitus starts buzzing in her ears.

      Ping.

      A drop of blood has just fallen onto the white sink.

      NewElisabeth brings her hand to her nose and looks at the end
      of her index finger, which is blood red.

      She opens the little door to the cabinet over the sink and
      takes out the kit marked:

                                          STABILIZER
                                          Other self

      The little card reads:

                                         you stabilise

                                          EVERY DAY



                                                                    - 30 -
  
                                                            ...sc 28A


      She takes out of the kit: a long puncture needle... and a
      sort of plastic tube containing individual, but interlocking,
      mini-vials (clipped on the inside) numbered 1 to 7, making up
      the whole of a compartmentalized syringe.

      She looks at the instruction card... her eyebrows shoot up
      when she sees the diagrams, a bit uneasy...

      Ping, ping, ping, the drops of blood fall more quickly and
      persistently forcing her to react.

      She kneels down next to the matrix and gently turns her onto
      her side.

      She approaches the oversized needle... and starts lightly
      jabbing the sutured skin... it resists... she pushes with a
      bit more strength... it still resists... she pushes again
      and... Swik!... it slides right in.

      Extremely concentrated while trying to ignore the piercing
      tinnitus that never stops, her eyes watch the long puncture
      needle that progressively sinks into the spinal column.

      The needle all the way in, she clips on the series of
      compartmentalized vials (forming a barrel) and pulls lightly
      on the plunger... progressively draining a transparent liquid
      and filling the individual vials.

      Once all the vials are filled, she carefully removes the
      needle, unclips the first vial marked DAY 1 and Swik! Gives
      herself an intramuscular injection in the thigh.

      HER PUPIL DILATES - A beat while her body diffuses the
      fluid.... the tinnitus diminishes in intensity... and finally
      disappears.

      The bleeding has stopped. Everything's ok.

      She breathes out to calm herself

      But she's distracted by a noise...

      She strains her ears... is it the... sound... of...

      A KEY IN THE LOCK??!!

      After a suspended moment where everything freezes, her mind
      processing the information...
28B                                                                 28B
      ...she rushes down the hallway towards the opening door and
      throws all her weight against it, violently slamming it back
      shut on the person who was trying to get in. She double locks
      the door. CLICK- CLACK.

      After a beat to collect her wits, she looks through the
      peephole and discovers: MARIA, her bag toppled over on the
      floor, not understanding what has just happened...



                                                                   - 31 -
  
                                                              ...sc 28A


      NewElisabeth's thoughts are racing. NewElisabeth rummages
      through her coat pocket, takes out her phone and writes a
      text message.
28C                                                                   28C
      She looks through the peephole. Ping. Maria takes out her
      cell phone and reads the message... frowns, looks surprised,
      but finally picks up her things and leaves.

      Relieved, NewElisabeth lets go of the peephole cover.
      SHLICK...

28D                                                                   28D
      INT. FRIDGE - DAY
      The fridge door opens. NewElisabeth puts in the tube
      containing the six remaining doses of Stabilizer.

29                                                                    29
      INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

      NewElisabeth, in panties and t-shirt, faces the picture
      window overlooking the city.

      She turns around and looks at the big framed photo of
      Elisabeth hanging on the wall, frozen in her blue leotard and
      imperturbable smile.

      She goes to stand in the middle of the room.

      A beat standing completely still.

      Then, perfectly straight on her central axis, she starts
      sliding her two legs apart... her feet slowly sliding in
      opposite directions on the hardwood floor... even more, until
      she is in a full split with what seems to be disconcerting
      ease.

      Her knee no longer troubles her in the least.

      She then turns into a straddle split position and leans her
      torso forward, easily reaching the floor with her nose, arms
      extended.

      LOW ANGLE SHOT of the poster of Elisabeth on the wall... soon
      to be blocked out by NewElisabeth's upper body reappearing in
      the frame while she straightens back up.

      She leans her torso to one side, making Elisabeth's smiling
      face reappear behind her... then returns to her central axis,
      masking Elisabeth's face again, before leaning over to the
      other side... like a metronome covering and uncovering
      Elisabeth's image to the rhythm of her stretching routine.

      A beat. And the her eyes fall upon the wastepaper basket with
      the newspaper thrown by Elisabeth before.


30                                                                    30
      OMITTED


                                                                  - 32 -
  
                                                            ...sc 31

31                                                                     31
      EXT. STREET (ELISABETH AREA) - DAY
      We follow NewElisabeth from behind, walking in the street.

      Her mustard yellow coat pulled tightly around her waist, but
      the coat is now too big for her new, thinner and slender
      frame, giving her a shapeless silhouette.

      Her step is unsteady, very much aware of all the surrounding
      sensory stimuli. The air on her skin. The wind in her hair.
      The sound of her steps on the pavement.

      Everything seems sharper. Heightened.

                                                        CUT TO:

32                                                                     32
      I/E. SHOP WINDOW / STREET - DAY

      POV FROM INSIDE A STORE - NewElisabeth is standing in front
      of a shop window and looking at something off screen.

      We track back to gradually reveal ...

      ... THE PERFECT ASS OF A PLASTIC MANNEQUIN, molded in a
      FLASHY PINK leotard and frozen in a sensual hip sway position
      with its hand on its hip.

      A moment on the mannequin's perfect ass in the foreground...
      then on NewElisabeth in the background who looks at her
      plastic counterpart for a long moment... before disappearing
      from the screen as she enters the shop.

33                                                                     33
      EXT. STREET (SHOP EXIT) - DAY

      We follow NewElisabeth again from behind as she walks down
      the street, now wearing a pink and white varsity jacket, a
      pleated miniskirt and white sneakers. A sports bag over her
      shoulder.

      Her long hair undulates in rhythm with her steps. Her walk is
      now more assured, swaying.

      And with this outfit, which highlights her new silhouette,
      heads start to turn as she walks by...

34A                                                                   34A
      EXT. STUDIO LOT - DAY

      Establishing shot.


34B                                                                   34B
      OMITTED




                                                                   - 33 -
  
                                                                ...sc 35

35                                                                     35
     INT. DANCE STUDIO / CASTING ROOM - DAY
     The slender legs of a girl in the foreground through which we
     see a small desk in the background, where the CASTING
     DIRECTOR and his ASSISTANT are sitting next to a small camera
     on a tripod.

                               CASTING DIRECTOR
                     We'll let you know by next week.

                               GIRL
                     Thank you so much... I'm just DYING
                     to get the part...

     The legs walk off screen.

     A moment of silence - wide shot. The two men behind their
     desk like two frozen points.

                               ASSISTANT CASTING DIRECTOR
                     Great dancer.

     A beat.

                               CASTING DIRECTOR
                     Too bad her boobs aren't in the
                     middle of her face instead of that
                     nose.

     A beat. Then the other guy gives a grunt of approval.

                                   ASSISTANT CASTING DIRECTOR
                     NEXT!

     Still focused on them, we hear the door that opens and
     closes, footsteps...

     The two men look up:

     A beat where their faces are frozen, as if something took
     their breath away... and the camera slowly pulls back to
     reveal...

     AN ASS, frozen in the same sexy sway, hand on her hip and
     wearing the same FLASHY PINK LEOTARD as the mannequin in the
     store window... except this time it's a human ass.

     NewElisabeth's perfectly formed ass.

                               CASTING DIRECTOR
                     Looks like everything sure is in
                     the right place this time...

                               ASSISTANT CASTING DIRECTOR
                     Please say your
                     name/age/measurements

     NewElisabeth is caught by surprise. Her mind goes blank.


                                                                   - 34 -
 
                                                                   ...sc 35


                               ASSISTANT CASTING DIRECTOR (CONT'D)
                         (a little louder)
                     Name??

     The camera travels up her long legs...

                                   NEW-ELISABETH (O.S.)
                     I'm...

     ...spirals around her slender waist and keeps traveling along
     the arch of her back...

     CLOSE-UP ON THE ROUND, BLACK LENS OF THE SMALL DV CAMERA that
     is staring right at her like a compound eye...

                                   NEW-ELISABETH (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                     I'm...

     (The little red dot flashes...)

     ...and the camera arrives on her face, her eyes sparkling as
     she looks straight into the camera and says:



                                        SUE
36                                                                        36

     BACK TO THE DV IMAGE THAT FREEZES PAUSED ON SUE'S FACE
     Something instantly happens on screen.

     She has an incredible presence.

     ZZZZZZZZZZ THE HANDICAM IMAGE REWINDS and PLAYS again in a
     tighter shot on her magnetic face that pierces the screen.

                               SUE
                     I'm... SUE.

     ZZZZZZZZZZ THE IMAGE REWINDS AGAIN AND GOES EVEN MORE TIGHT
     ON HER SPARKLING EYES.

                                   SUE (CONT'D)
                     ...SUE.

     ZZZZZZZZZZZ THE IMAGE REWINDS AND PLAYS EVEN CLOSER ON HER
     LUSCIOUS, CURVED LIPS.

     WHICH REPEAT - WITHOUT ANY SOUND THIS TIME

                               SUE (MUTE) (CONT'D)
                     ...SUE...SUE...SUE...




                                                                      - 35 -
 
                                                           ...sc 37

37                                                                   37
     INT. HARVEY'S OFFICE - DAY
     The shot widens and we discover that we are now in a large
     office where the CLOSE-UP IMAGE OF SUE'S LIPS is multiplied
     on a wall of screens.

     Sue is standing in the middle of the room while we hear a
     thundering voice from afar:

                               HARVEY (O.S.)
                     WHERE IS SHE ??... WHERE IS SHE ??!

     Harvey charges into the room, followed by THREE YOUNG MEN IN
     SUITS, and stops dead in his tracks... his eyes bright...
     ecstatic as if in front of a mystical revelation:

                                   HARVEY (CONT'D)
                     WHAT...

     He takes her hand and makes her spin slowly like a small
     figurine.

                               HARVEY (CONT'D)
                     ...A GORGEOUS...

     Makes her sit facing his desk.

                               HARVEY (CONT'D)
                     ...LITTLE ANGEL.

     He flops into his huge leather armchair behind his desk.

                               HARVEY (CONT'D)
                     Why on earth did nobody tell me
                     earlier about your existence? A lot
                     of people are going to get fired
                     for that believe me...

     Sue, laughing flirtatiously... cheerfully soaks up the
     compliments, savoring all this new flattering attention
     surrounding her.

     Harvey lights a cigarette. EXTREME CLOSE-UP on the flame
     which sets the tobacco ablaze like a furnace.

                               HARVEY (CONT'D)
                     I'll be brief.

     He snaps his Zippo lighter shut - CLING!

                               HARVEY (CONT'D)
                     Primo: you're hired.

     A puff of smoke exhaled from his mouth.




                                                                 - 36 -
 
                                                      ...sc 37


                          HARVEY (CONT'D)
                Segundo: we want something in your
                image: BEAUTIFUL and HAPPY. People
                want to be happy.

The embers of his cigarette light up again.

                           HARVEY (CONT'D)
                Tertio : We're airing in two weeks.
                So let's get to work. I'll let you
                organize everything else with my
                assistant....
                    (he snaps his fingers
                     several times, as if
                     trying to remember her
                     name)
                ...

A voice echoes off screen.

                              FEMALE VOICE (O.S.)
                Isabella.

The camera pans quickly towards ISABELLA (25/30) who is
totally silent...then quickly pans back towards Harvey

                          HARVEY
                    (frowning, as if suddenly
                     disturbed)
                ...?......? Huh? I don't have time
                for that! Let's make it Cindy. It's
                shorter. Better. I'll let you
                organize everything else with
                Cindy.

As he's about to get up, Sue holds him back with a gesture.

                          SUE
                Oh... before you go...

                          HARVEY
                Yes princess?

                          SUE
                I just have to mention... a small
                scheduling issue.

Harvey's eyes change slightly...

                           SUE (CONT'D)
                I will need to be out of town every
                other week...
                    (a beat)
                ...to take care of my mother who's
                very sick.

Harvey looks at her fixedly:



                                                          - 37 -

                                                            ...sc 37


                                HARVEY
                      Listen to me very carefully `cause
                      I don't think you've heard me.

      He comes over right next to her face, speaking very slowly:

                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      I WANT YOU for this show. So we'll
                      organize around whatever mother,
                      brother, fucking sick dog or rabbit
                      you need to take care of.

      He stands and stares at her, his eyes sparkling.

                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      Gorgeous and with a pure heart.
                      People are gonna LOVE that!

      He crushes his cigarette out in the big crystal ashtray.
      HISSSSSSS

      MONTAGE SEQUENCE BEGINS to RUNAROUND SUE by Dion blasting at
      top volume:

38                                                                     38
      EXT. STREET (FULL GLAM & POP) - DAY
      SUE FROM BEHIND WALKING DOWN THE STREET - there is a full
      assurance in her swaying gait, she exudes a newfound
      confidence. Heads turn outright as she passes by.

39A                                                                   39A
      INT. FRIDGE/KITCHEN - DAY

      VIEW FROM INSIDE THE FRIDGE - the door opens revealing the
      puncture syringe and five vials - Sue's hand grabs it.

39B                                                                   39B
      INT. BATHROOM

      SUE'S HANDS UNCLIP A NEW VIAL from the syringe barrel and
      SWIK! She gives herself an intramuscular injection in the
      thigh.

      CLACK the empty vial falls into the trash can where there are
      now 4 other empty vials.

40                                                                     40
      INT. LIVING ROOM

      SUE'S HAND SIGNING "Elisabeth" on a note where we can read:
      Had to go abroad unexpectedly... this will cover the rest of
      the year... thank you for everything...". Sitting at the
      kitchen table, Sue puts the note and cash in an envelope on
      which she writes: MARIA




                                                                   - 38 -
  
                                                              ...sc 41A

41A                                                                     41A
      INT. WALK-IN CLOSET - DAY
      POV FROM    INSIDE A WALK-IN CLOSET/SHLACK! ELISABETH'S WHOLE
      WARDROBE    IS PUSHED TO EITHER SIDE OF THE CLOSET IN ONE SHARP
      GESTURE,    revealing Sue in the middle, who hangs up her new,
      brightly    colored clothing.

41B                                                                     41B
      INT. BEDROOM. DAY

      SUE'S MANICURED HAND unwraps a new phone. She chooses LOUIS
      PRIMA - When you're smiling - for the ringtone, and puts the
      PINK telephone down next to Elisabeth's GOLD phone.

42                                                                       42
      INT. APARTMENT CORRIDOR / LANDING. DAY

      POV THROUGH THE PEEPHOLE looking out the front door: MARIA
      reads the note and looks at the cash in the envelope.
      SUE'S MANICURED FINGER lets the peephole cover fall back
      down. SHLICK.

43                                                                       43
      INT. BEDROOM. DAY

      A BEDSHEET MADE OF POWDER PINK SATIN, flies above the bed,
      replacing the previous white cotton sheet. The shimmering
      fabric slowly falls back down towards the camera as Sue lets
      herself fall back against the powder pink satin which looks
      like the inside of a jewelry box.

      TOP SHOT which tracks up Sue's feet... legs... belly... in
      OVERLAY THE GRADATIONS MARKED ON THE I.V BAG, which is slowly
      emptying... while the music progressively fades until it is
      no longer heard.

                                                           CUT TO:

44                                                                       44
      INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

      An ORANGE AND GOLDEN DRAGON BREATHES OUT a gigantic flame.

      The frame widens and we discover it's an embroidery on the
      back of a silk dressing gown worn by Sue; we see her from
      behind, facing the picture window looking at the city's
      lights.

      In the middle of the room plunged in darkness, the dragon
      seems to be glowing as if symbolizing her newfound strength
      and soaring ascent.

      A slight tinnitus starts buzzing in her ears...




                                                                     - 39 -
  
                                                               ...sc 45

45                                                                    45
     INT. BATHROOM - EVENING
     On the floor, the last drops of liquid are sucked from the
     matrix's perfusion bag.

     On the bathroom cabinet shelf, the syringe's
     compartmentalized barrel is now empty, the seven vials have
     been used.

     Sue looks at herself in the mirror.

     It's time...

     She takes the pipe marked SWITCH and looks at the card that
     reads:

                                        YOU SWITCH

                              every seven day no matter what

     She takes off her bathrobe and kneels next to Elisabeth.

     She looks at her for a while... She unclips the empty IV bag
     from the intravenous tubing... clips on the end of the small
     pipe instead... and sticks the needle at the other end of the
     pipe into her own arm.

     She's a little nervous...

     She waits... lightly twists and turns the needle inside her
     arm... After a short moment, blood starts to run through the
     transparent nozzle on one side, and then the other; blood
     starts to circulate between the two bodies.

     Little by little, her vision blurs. As if life were leaving
     her body. As if she could feel the cold void of emptiness
     invade and overwhelm her. As if the world were losing its
     colors. And life its very spark.

     All of a sudden, everything starts to distort HORRIBLY, her
     vision blurs, a HIGH-PITCHED buzzing noise blasts her
     eardrums and...

     SMACK! THE TWO BLU TACK BALLS SLAMMED ONE AGAINST THE OTHER

     WHAM! She collapses head first.

     BLACK


46                                                                    46
     MOTORCYCLE IMAGERY

     A beat of silence over a black screen.




                                                                  - 40 -
 
                                                             ...sc 46


     Then THE BLACK STARTS SHAKING, BECOMING A DIRTY GRAINY AND
     UNSTABLE IMAGE - where a tiny dot starts quivering in the far
     background at the center of the screen while a very weak beat
     starts echoing: Ba boom......ba boom......ba boom...

     The small dot grows bigger and bigger... until it takes the
     shape of a ghostly motorcycle, like a photographic negative,
     which hurtles straight towards the camera lens... the only
     audible sound is the heartbeat, growing louder... Ba boom...
     ba boom... ba boom... the motorcycle hurtles DIRECTLY AT THE
     CAMERA at full speed BaBoommBaBoom AND IS ON THE
                     EXPLODING AGAINST THE SCREE...
     VERGE OF


47                                                                   47
     INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT
     ... and AHAAAAAAAAA! ELISABETH WAKES UP with a start, in her
     old body, lying on the bathroom floor!

     She starts coughing uncontrollably. Like a fish straight out
     of the water whose gills have difficulty functioning.

     Sue's lifeless body has collapsed right on top of her, which
     prevents Elisabeth from breathing. She tries several times
     before finally being able to make her roll over. Elisabeth
     stays in place for a moment, trying to catch her breath.

     She removes the small pipe from her arm and gets up with
     difficulty.

     She staggers abruptly as if her muscles were weakened. She
     regains her balance at the very last moment and leans against
     the sink.

     She looks at her reflection in the mirror. She looks like a
     trainwreck. Her mouth is sticky and dry. Her eyelashes are
     stuck together. She rubs her painful knee and just stands
     there for a moment, head hanging down.

     She twists and turns to look at the scar on her back. The
     stitches outline a long gash going down her spinal column
     from her neck all the way to her tailbone.

     She puts on her bathrobe. Tightens the belt around her waist.

     She's freezing. As if she were awakening from a heroin shot.

     She looks down at Sue's body on the floor.

     So young.

     So perfect.

     It's the first time that she sees her � that she sees
     HERSELF... from the outside.



                                                                 - 41 -
 
                                                             ...sc 47


     She takes the second IV bag (FOOD / OTHER SELF) from the
     small bathroom cabinet and sticks it into Sue's arm.

     She heads out towards the corridor.

                                                       CUT TO:

48                                                                    48
     INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT
     SIZZZZZZZZZZZZ - TWO raw eggs plopped into a frying pan.

     Elisabeth makes something to eat. She's super hungry.

     The hot oil in the pan makes a deafening sound.

     The two egg yolks sizzling next to one another feel like a
     strange reminder.

     The silent apartment is plunged in darkness.

     FROM THE LONG DARK HALLWAY with the doorframe at the very end
     leading to the bathroom - we see Sue's body lying inertly on
     the tile floor.

     IN THE KITCHEN - Elisabeth eats avidly as if to restore an
     energy balance.

     Long silence. Only the small humming noise from the fridge.

     In comparison to the energy she had before when she was Sue,
     everything now seems very silent and surrounded by a sluggish
     cloud.

     BLACK

                                                       FADE IN:

49                                                                    49
     INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

     THE STILL LIVING ROOM BATHED IN SUNLIGHT, with the big poster
     of Elisabeth in her blue leotard and imperturbable smile.

50                                                                    50
     INT. SHOWER - DAY

     HISSSSSSSSSSSSS THE POWERFUL JET OF WATER STREAMING DOWN THE
     LARGE STITCHES like thorns along Elisabeth's spinal column.

51                                                                    51
     INT. KITCHEN - DAY

     Elisabeth in her bathrobe at the kitchen table sifts through
     the mail where she finds a new white envelope.

     She opens it and takes out a big white note card on which is
     written:


                                                                  - 42 -
 
                                                               ...sc 51


               We hope you are enjoying your experience with
                                        THE SUBSTANCE
                Your two week refill kit has been delivered
                            to your deposit box

                                                          CUT TO:

52                                                                      52
     INT. BATHROOM - DAY
     Facing the bathroom mirror, Elisabeth twists and turns to
     look at the stitches on her back:

     The scar tissue has healed. She picks up the surgical pliers
     and starts to extract the sutures (slightly painful and
     uncomfortable). She twists with difficulty and tries to grab
     the stitches one by one.

     In the white sink, the black thread looks like spider legs.
     She gathers it all, and throws the threads in the trash can.

     She puts scarring cream on the long pink scar.

     A phone starts ringing. We follow Elisabeth as she walks
     towards the bedroom.

53                                                                      53
     INT. BEDROOM - DAY

     A short beat as she sees the name of the person calling on
     the phone: HARVEY. She sits down on the bed and picks up the
     phone taking on a confident voice.

                                   ELISABETH
                     Hel...

                               HARVEY (V.O.)
                     I need you to come back.

     Elisabeth straightens slightly all of a sudden. A fleeting
     glow appears in her eyes.

                               HARVEY (V.O.)
                     To empty your office. Whenever you
                     want, no rush. This afternoon?
                         (without waiting for her
                          to answer)
                     Great, See you then!

     He hangs up.

     A beat on Elisabeth who remains seated on the bed, the big,
     pink scar covering her back.

54                                                                      54
     OMITTED


                                                                    - 43 -
 
                                                               ...sc 55

55                                                                    55
      EXT. STREET (ELISABETH AREA) - DAY
      Clack clack clack The sound of heels clicking on the
      pavement.

      We follow Elisabeth from behind as she walks, wearing her
      mustard yellow coat.

      She pulls up her coat collar several times to make sure the
      scar isn't visible.

      Everything seems more aggressive. The noise of the cars
      higher pitched. People are even more in a hurry.

      No one turns around as she walks by.

      Lost in her thoughts.

56A                                                                  56A
      EXT. STUDIO LOT - DAY

      Establishing shot.


56B                                                                  56B
      OMITTED

57                                                                    57
      INT. STUDIO / BACKSTAGE CORRIDOR         - DAY

      Close up on Elisabeth staring fixedly at something off
      screen.

      From the reverse angle we see it's the long backstage.

      All her photos which once hung like trophies have since been
      taken down.

      A beat on the long corridor, which now seems stark naked.

      Harvey appears at the other end, striding towards her,
      carrying a big cardboard box in his hands.

                                HARVEY
                      Aaaaahh, there's   she is!!! Where
                      have you been??!   We wanted to all
                      have a drink for   your departure -
                      something big to   mark the occasion.

      He dumps the box into her arms.

                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      Anyway, I've gathered everything
                      for you, to save time. And we all
                      chipped in...
                          (proudly taking a wrapped
                           gift out of the box)
                      ...we bought you just a little
                      something to keep you busy...
                                (MORE)

                                                                  - 44 -
  
                                                              ...sc 57
                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      You'll open it at home. It's
                      French. My wife swears by it!
                          (looking at his watch)
                      Oops! I've got to run! But come and
                      visit whenever you like! We'll
                      always be happy to see you!

      His excess of enthusiasm stresses the fact that he wants to
      get rid of her as soon as possible.

      And before she even has time to answer, he has already left
      and disappeared down the hallway.

      Elisabeth finds herself standing silently alone on the grey
      rug that runs down the middle of the empty corridor.

      Glug glug glug...

      The water fountain right behind her gurgles... as if to
      stress how pathetic the whole situation really is...

58A                                                                  58A
      EXT. STREET (STUDIO AREA) - DAY
      Elisabeth walking with a slightly more stressed step.

58B                                                                  58B
      EXT. STREET (LESS NICE STREET) - DAY

      Elisabeth, still walking, her surroundings are a lot less
      pleasant.

58C                                                                  58C
      OMITTED

58D                                                                  58D
      INT. DEPOSIT CORRIDOR - DAY

      Elisabeth goes down the long narrow corridor

59                                                                    59
      INT. DEPOSIT LOBBY - DAY

      She waves her card over box 503, BEEP.



60                                                                    60
      INT. BATHROOM - DAY

      Sue's figure lying still on the tile in the darkness.

      After a moment, Elisabeth walks into the bathroom and
      switches on the light.

      She steps over Sue and puts a new small cardboard box on the
      sink. She opens it to find: two new IV bags and seven new
      empty vials clipped together.


                                                                  - 45 -
  
                                                             ...sc 60


     She puts them away in the bathroom cabinet and closes the
     mirrored door where she sees her reflection staring back at
     her.

     She looks at Sue lying on the floor.

     And the IV bag indicating that there are still 4 more days to
     go...

61                                                                    61
     INT. KITCHEN/LIVING ROOM           - DAY
     Elisabeth sits at the kitchen table crossing out days on a
     monthly calendar in black.

     She crosses out seven days in a row... then writes "SUE" in
     each of the next seven days... then the same thing again
     until she has covered the entire month.

     She leans the calendar up against the wall, pensive.

     She lightly taps the end of the pen against the table, bored.

     She turns on the radio:

     ...at discount prices! It's fish of the sea month at
     COSTCO! SUPER COLOSSAL ALASKAN RED KING CRAB LEGS are
     only $12.99 a pound, so come on down and reel in your
     catch! HEY BUT WHO'S THIS?! WHO'S WHAT? WHO'S ON TOP
     OF THIS? THE ASSURAN-
     She switches off the exasperating commercials with a flick.

     She remains seated in her chair for a moment.

     Then she gets up and walks into the living room. She
     disappears from the frame and after a little while we see the
     TV turn on in the background.

     Staying with the wide shot, the TV in the background,
     spitting out its programs.

     BLACK

     The sound of a TV show in the distance slowly gets louder.

62                                                                    62
     INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT
     GROUND VIEW OF THE BATHROOM TILES - The door opens and a beam
     of light comes through, shining on Sue lying on the floor.

     We can see Elisabeth's feet and the hem of the white bathrobe
     standing still in the foreground.

     The I.V bag indicates two more notches.



                                                                  - 46 -
 
                                                           ...sc 62


     Two more days to get through...

     Elisabeth's feet leave the frame and the door closes again.

     BLACK

     The sound of the TV dies down...

     ...comes back on with a new show... and dies down again...

     Then rhythmic music, soft and muffled at first, slowly grows
     louder in the distance...

     The volume increases, louder and louder ...

63                                                                    63
     INT. KITCHEN / LIVING ROOM - DAY
     ...AND BURSTS FULL BLAST as a door opens letting the light...
     into the fridge.

     We realize that our POV IS FROM INSIDE THE REFRIGERATOR,
     while now it's SUE in underwear and a small tank top who
     bends over to put away the compartmentalized syringe filled
     with spinal liquid for the next seven days, the music
     blasting behind her in the apartment.

     She grabs a soda can.

     CLOSE UP ON HER MANICURED HAND AND RED NAIL POLISH, pulling
     off the can tab KSHHHHH...

     HER FLAT, MUSCULAR BELLY as she thrusts her hip to close the
     fridge door.

     We follow Sue, stretching and drinking, swaying in rhythm to
     the music and enjoying the sensations of being in her new
     body.

     While the time she spent as Elisabeth felt dull and
     pointless, now it's as though a bundle of irrepressible
     energy has taken over the apartment.

     Sue walks into the living room and sees that the TV is still
     switched on. Her gaze falls upon the large armchair facing
     the TV with a slight concave impression in the cushion...

     A barely perceptible scolding look flashes across her face.

     She grabs the remote control, turns off the TV, and glances
     at the framed photo of Elisabeth on the wall as if
     reprimanding her - Tsk, tsk.

     She heads for the bathroom.




                                                                  - 47 -
 
                                                               ...sc 64

64                                                                       64
      INT. BATHROOM - DAY
      She leans against the doorframe and looks down at Elisabeth's
      slumped body on the tiles.

      A long moment as she looks down at the limp matrix, sprawled
      on the ground like a rag doll.

      CRRRRRUNCH - she crushes the can in one sharp gesture and
      starts looking around, as if searching for something.

      She knocks on various walls in the apartment: Tap tap tap
      listening to the echo inside... Tap tap tap...

65A                                                                     65A
      INT. BEDROOM - DAY

      ...inside the bedroom: tap tap tap

65B                                                                     65B
      INT. WALK-IN CLOSET - DAY

      She opens the walk-in closet.

      Pushes the clothes aside. Knocks against the wall.

      Tock tock tock...

      It sounds hollow.

66                                                                       66
      INT. BATHROOM - DAY

      She goes into the bathroom, taps on the other side of the
      wall.

      Tock tock tock... Hollow too. There's a hollow space between
      the walk-in closet and the bathroom.

      She remains still for a moment, staring at the wall, pensive.

      BLACK

67                                                                       67
      INT. SECRET ROOM IN CONSTRUCTION - DAY

      BOOM!

      The sound of a blow like a large sledgehammer in the
      darkness. The blow makes the frame shake, and a trickle of
      dust falls from above.

                                                           CUT TO:




                                                                     - 48 -
  
                                                           ...sc 68

68                                                                   68
     INT. CASTING ROOM / DANCE STUDIO - DAY
     BAM! GROUND-LEVEL VIEW of a dance studio rehearsal: a pair of
     legs lands in the frame on the wooden floor doing a split,
     followed by a dozen other pairs of legs doing the same thing.

                                                       CUT TO:

69                                                                   69
     INT. SECRET ROOM IN CONSTRUCTION - DAY

     BOOM! The sledgehammer hits the wall again, sprinkling
     plaster around and letting a beam of light pierce through the
     wall. In the hole that has appeared, we see Sue's face,
     wearing a dust mask and safety goggles.

                                                       CUT TO:

70                                                                   70
     INT. CASTING ROOM / DANCE STUDIO - DAY

     CLAP! CLAP! CLAP! Hands clapping together in rhythm. Sue, in
     the foreground of the dance studio, leads the dancers who are
     wearing comfortable workout outfits.

                                                       CUT TO:

71                                                                   71
     INT. SECRET ROOM / BATHROOM - DAY

     BAM! BAM! BAM! The hole widens as Sue keeps hitting the
     bathroom wall with the sledgehammer, revealing a dark cavity
     behind it; big clouds of dust fly into the bathroom.

72                                                                   72
     INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

     The matrix is lying in stasis in the middle of the living
     room, sheltered from the construction work.

     She lies motionless under her large framed poster while the
     blows from the sledgehammer blare off screen.

                                                       CUT TO:

73                                                                   73
     INT. PHOTO STUDIO - DAY

     PROFILE of Sue's face in a photo studio.

     SUE ON THE RIGHT! She turns her head towards the camera.

     THE BLACK EYE OF A LARGE CAMERA

     FLASH!

                                                       CUT TO:



                                                                 - 49 -
 
                                                               ...sc 74

74                                                                       74
      INT. BATHROOM - EVENING
      CRRRRRRRRR the crackling and dazzling light of a blowtorch
      welding elements in the wall cavity.

                                                           CUT TO:

75A                                                                     75A
      INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

      POV SHOT FROM INSIDE A CARDBOARD BOX - Elisabeth's award
      statues, knickknacks, and photo frames are stored bit by bit
      by Sue, who then closes the flaps of the cardboard box: BLACK

                                                           CUT TO:
75B                                                                     75B
      DTTTTTTT the needle of a sewing machine runs up a shiny
      fabric at full speed.

                                                           CUT TO:

76                                                                       76
      INT. BATHROOM - DAY

      BZZZZZZZZ A drill screws wall plugs into a wall.

      BAM BAM BAM! BAM BAM BAM!

      The drilling stops, and we hear someone banging on the front
      door.

77A                                                                     77A
      INT. LIVING ROOM / HALLWAY - DAY

      Sue appears and opens it, finding herself face to face with
      her NEXT DOOR NEIGHBOR (old bachelor in his forties) who
      yells at her immediately:

                                NEIGHBOR
                      WHEN ARE YOU GOING TO STOP THIS
                      NOIS...
                          (seeing her)
                      Oh... I thought it was Ms. Spar...

                                SUE
                          (standing in her
                           doorframe, devastating
                           smile)
                      She moved out.

      A beat where he stares at her, flustered.

                                SUE (CONT'D)
                      I'm the new tenant.
                          (she stretches her hand
                           out)
                      Sue.



                                                                     - 50 -
  
                                                            ...sc 77A


      He stands there stupidly. Then, as if snapping back to
      reality, he wipes his sweaty palm against his pants and
      stretches it out to her, trying not to appear overly excited.

                                NEIGHBOR
                          (stuttering)
                      Ovl...Olivr...Ovlir...

                                SUE
                      You wanted to complain about
                      something Oliver?

      A long pregnant pause. And then, as if reconnecting his brain
      to his mouth:

                                NEIGHBOR
                      Oh no! No no... absolutely not...
                      it's euh... great to have stuff
                      going on in the building... I'm
                      quite handy, if I could help with
                      my tools... I have a big hammer and
                      euh... I mean you know... Anyway! I
                      live right next door, you know
                      where to find me...
                          (gesturing to appear
                           "cool")
                       ...anytime...Day or...night.

      He suddenly turns around and goes away, closing his apartment
      door behind him, completely at a loss.

      Sue closes her door laughing to herself...

77B                                                                   77B
      INT. LIVING ROOM - JOUR
      ...we follow her, swaying as she walks back down the hallway.

      Entering the living room, we discover through the picture
      window that a PUBLICITY BILLBOARD WITH A HUGE PHOTO OF HER
      has been set up outside.

      She's sporting a sexy pose in her flashy pink leotard with a
      wide smile and a hand on her hip:


                                     NEW SHOW
                                         coming soon
      Sue walks towards the matrix lying in stasis on the floor,
      props the I.V bag up on her belly, grabs her by both arms...

      .. And slowly drags her down the hallway.




                                                                   - 51 -
  
                                                            ...sc 77B

77C   Inside the empty living room, Elisabeth's large framed poster 77C
      still hanging on the wall is now facing Sue's publicity
      billboard in a bizarre face off.

      Almost as if the two versions of herself were staring at each
      other like a static paper version of a cowboy standoff...

      ELISABETH'S GLOWING EYES...

      FACING SUE'S SPARKLING EYES...

78                                                                    78
      INT. HALLWAY - DAY
      Sue drags the matrix along the corridor. She noticeably
      handles her with a little less consideration.

      The matrix's hip knocks against the corner of a piece of
      furniture and one of her arms grips onto something which
      slows her down. We can sense Sue can't wait to get this over
      with.

79A                                                                   79A
      INT. BATHROOM - DAY

      She reaches the bathroom, opens the door to the secret
      room...

79B                                                                   79B
      INT. SECRET ROOM - DAY

      ...and drags the matrix to a dark and somber secret room
      created in the empty space behind the bathroom wall, which we
      now discover finished.

      The new secret wall slides perfectly into the real one,
      invisible to outside eyes.

      Only a small, almost imperceptible air vent allows the air to
      circulate. Otherwise, the room is dark, cavernous and
      completely pitch black inside.

80                                                                    80
      INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

      IN THE LIVING ROOM the face off continues in increasingly
      tighter shots between Elisabeth and Sue's pictures.

      SUE'S SUPER PEARLY WHITE SMILE...

      FACING ELISABETH'S LARGE SMIL... which swivels all of a
      sudden and disappears out of the frame, leaving just the
      plain white wall.




                                                                  - 52 -
  
                                                             ...sc 81

81                                                                     81
     INT. SECRET ROOM - DAY
     Sue stores the large framed poster she took down next to
     Elisabeth inside the little secret room.

     A moment with Sue staring at the matrix lying on the ground,
     before she starts to close the heavy secret wall.

     We see the beam of light that slowly fades on the matrix's
     still body lying on the ground...

     The beam fades... and fades...

     ...and then TOTAL DARKNESS sweeps over her in a deep,
     guttural sound.

     BLACK.



     A long moment of silence.

     Then, a humming noise that slowly grows louder...

     Much like a roaring sound...

     Getting louder and louder...

82                                                                     82
     INT. TV STUDIO / SUE'S SHOW "PUMP IT UP" - DAY

     ...As a big spotlight turns on and throws its full beam on:

     AN ASS, molded inside a flashy pink leotard (the famous pose
     with the hand on the hip).

                                                         CUT TO:

     A second ass, molded inside a blue leotard.

                                                         CUT TO:

     A third ass in a yellow leotard.

     The camera's huge eye.

     The small red recording dot.

     We follow FEET walking ahead in rhythm... past a pink,
     curved, glossy material, which we soon discover to be huge
     letter balloons through which we pull back to reveal a series
     of pink letters spelling out the title of the new show:



                                PUMP IT UP
                                                                   - 53 -
 
                                                        ...sc 82


                                   With Sue

The shot continues to pull back revealing THE DANCERS
surrounding Sue.

                          SUE
                Hi everybody! I'm Sue and it's time
                to PUMP IT UP! So here we go!

Her leg flies up in the air as the music starts, blasting
away at full volume.

Asses start to sway in rhythm to the dynamic and bewitching
music.

We track past the asses moving to the beat. To the left. To
the right. Heads bend upside down revealing blondes,
brunettes and redheads with long, abundant hair.

Thin WAISTS and PELVISES sway suggestively.

SUPER HIGH CUT flashy leotards, reveal perfectly waxed groins
underneath.

Firm and BOUNCY BOSOMS compressed inside the lycra.

A concentrate of energy and sexy girls swaying in rhythm with
provocative smiles inside the flashy and modernized scenery.

Everything now is younger, sexier and more dynamic.

Nothing in comparison with Elisabeth's outdated show.

Sue's face, enjoying the change in atmosphere.

It was clearly time for a makeover.

In the center of the action, she's magnetically beautiful.

She lets herself bask in the spotlight as she tightens her
abs in rhythm.

Once.

Twice.

Ten times.

Thirty times.

Her gaze pierces the screen.

And every single pair of eyes is on her.

The cameramen.

The assistants.


                                                             - 54 -

                                                           ...sc 82


     Her face MULTIPLIED on the control room screens.

83                                                                    83
     INT. HARVEY'S OFFICE - DAY
     On the wall of screens in Harvey's office.

84                                                                    84
     INT. TV STUDIO / SUE'S SHOW "PUMP IT UP" - DAY

     The group moves in rhythm, a constant crescendo, until the
     music ends and in a final motion which freezes the group,
     perfectly synched...

                               SUE
                     WOO!! THANK YOU EVERYBODY!

     Sue's chest rises up and down...

     She's covered in sweat and out of breath, but this time it's
     because of the galvanizing effort she's just made with a body
     full of hormones and adrenaline.

                               SUE (CONT'D)
                     I'll see you all next week!

     She is about to go but then suddenly she turns back to the
     camera as if she's forgotten something:

                                   SUE (CONT'D)
                     Oh!
                         (eyes sparkling)
                     And in the mean time...

     She winks and blows a kiss to the camera.

                               SUE (CONT'D)
                     ... take care of yourself.

     The lights switch off.

     Silence returns on set.

     A suspended beat, as if the air needed to cope with all the
     sexual and bodily energy that has been stirred.

     A voice echoes from the control room:

     And that's a wrap!

     Everybody is suddenly bursting with happiness. WOOHOOHOO!!!
     They hug each other, lie down or bend over to catch their
     breath, in great relaxation and relief.

     A thunderous and ecstatic voice rings out:

                               HARVEY (O.S.)
                     Where is she?? Where is she??


                                                                  - 55 -
 
                                                                     ...sc 84


     And Harvey charges in, opening his arms wide, grandiose,
     singing her praises.

     An assistant brings Sue a towel and a little bottle of water.

85                                                                          85
     INT. TV STUDIO BACKSTAGE CORRIDOR               - DAY
     Sue steps into the backstage corridor with glistening eyes,
     stops to drink her little bottle of water as she walks past a
     big framed poster hanging on the wall advertising her new
     show:


                                        PUMP IT UP
                                          with Sue

     The first of many to come...

     Eyes glistening, she sets off again....

                                                              CUT TO:

86                                                                          86
     INT/EXT. TV STUDIO EXIT DOOR / STUDIO LOT ALLEY         - DAY
     SLAM! The building's door opens out onto brilliant SUNLIGHT,
     a BLUE SKY AND PALM TREES reflected in Sue's sunglasses. Sue
     comes out of the building wearing her varsity jacket and
     sports bag over her shoulder. She walks towards the exit.

     A voice echoes out from behind:

                               MAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
                     I'd be the happiest man on earth if
                     I had the chance to work with you..

     Sue's face freezes... as if challenged by this voice which
     sounds familiar to her... she slowly turns and finds herself
     facing... CRAIG. With a huge smile etched on his jaw, he
     proudly stretches out a hand to her.

                               CRAIG
                     I'm Craig Silver, from Craig Silver
                     management.
                         (he hands her his card)
                     ...You have so much potential, we
                     could make great things happen
                     together.

     A different voice calls out as ANOTHER GUY steps into frame.

                                ALAN
                     And I'm Alan Weil from WEIL & CLARK
                     MANAGEMENT.
                         (he also hands her his
                          card)
                                (MORE)

                                                                        - 56 -
 
                                                                ...sc 86
                               ALAN (CONT'D)
                     WE'LL bring you all the way to the
                     top!

     Then a THIRD ONE...

                               BOB
                     Bob HASWELL from H&H MANAGEMENT
                     (agency name TBC)
                         (new card)
                     How come you've never been on our
                     radar? We'd be the perfect reps for
                     you!

     Sue looks at the three men who each hold out their card to
     her... She ends up smiling at Craig... and takes his card.

     Craig's victorious smile... yes!... which immediately turns
     into his jaw dropping when Sue tears his card into small
     pieces before stuffing them into his shirt pocket and tapping
     on it... She then arbitrarily chooses one of the other
     business cards.

                               SUE
                     Nice to meet you....
                         (looking at the card)
                     ...Alan!

     She immediately turns her back on the three men, walking away
     with a contented smile on her face.

     BLACK

                                                           FADE IN:

87                                                                        87
     INT. BEDROOM /HALLWAY /BATHROOM /SECRET ROOM - END OF DAY
     POV FROM INSIDE A BIG RECTANGULAR BOX whose cover is being
     removed. Sue's face is looking inside it with sparkling eyes.

     It's a leather catsuit that she slowly takes out from a big
     white rectangular box lying on the bed.

     HER LOVELY FOOT WITH POLISHED TOENAILS slides inside the
     black and supple leather.

     We film up her entire leg, the camera turns around her thigh
     and does an EXTREME CLOSE UP on the black and shiny material
     as she slips on the ultra tight suit, as if we are an
     integral part of the leather � as if the leather was becoming
     one with the body, allowing the body to express its full
     physical potential.

     She slowly closes the zipper... the two swaths of leather
     uniting, swallowing up her spinal column in the aerodynamic
     casing.




                                                                      - 57 -
 
                                                               ...sc 87


      She throws her blond mane of hair cascading down between her
      shoulder blades; we follow down the length of her flowing
      locks... then down her buttocks and leg, all the way to her
      black stiletto heels which start walking across the white
      carpet...

      ...then across the hardwood floor in the hallway...

      ... arriving on the tiled bathroom floor...

      ... and finally end their journey on the secret room's bare
      cement floor.

      The high heels stand next to Elisabeth's IV bag that is
      almost empty. Just a few hours until it is time to switch.

88A                                                                     88A
      INT. BATHROOM / SECRET ROOM - END OF DAY
      Sue looks at herself in the mirror, then we see IN EXTREME
      CLOSE UP the stick of bright red lipstick coloring her plump
      lips...

      Her eyes glow from an inner fire...

      An increasingly unbounded sensuality. Engulfing...

      We hear horns honking outside...

      Sue looks at herself for a moment in the mirror...

88B                                                                     88B
      INT. SECRET ROOM - EVENING

      ...then crouches down next to the matrix.

                                SUE
                      ...I'm not coming back late... so
                      you just wait for me...
                          (she tries to spread out
                           the remaining food inside
                           the bag)
                      Don't eat too fast...

      She closes the heavy door and now the only thing visible is
      the little square of light from the air duct, through which
      we can see the high heels gradually walking away across the
      bathroom tiles... then we hear the clack of the light switch,
      which leaves us in DARKNESS

                                                           CUT TO:

89A                                                                     89A
      EXT. STREET (ELISABETH BUILDING) - NIGHT

      Ground level on a tarmac road, close-up on a SMOKY EXHAUST
      PIPE and THE BRIGHT RED TAIL LIGHT OF A CONVERTIBLE CAR.



                                                                     - 58 -
  
                                                              ...sc 89A


      The camera jibs up and reveals Sue getting into a convertible
      car filled with male and female dancers who welcome her with
      whistles and giggles. The car takes off in peals of laughter
      and screams, like a shooting cannonball ready to enjoy the
      pleasures of the night.

89B                                                                   89B
      INT. APT / LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
      A moment on the silent and still living room.

      On the wall, we can make out the outline where the old
      picture frame has been taken down.

      BLACK

                                                       FADE IN:

90                                                                     90
      THE STILL LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

      The living room is still.

      The moon ray on the white wall has moved - time has passed...

91                                                                     91
      INT. SECRET ROOM - NIGHT

      Elisabeth's body in stasis lying on the floor, her inert,
      empty and glazed eyes, staring into nothingness.

      Attached to her arm, the nutrition bag is almost empty. The
      yellow liquid is slowly reaching the SWITCH mark.

      A very slight muffled echo rings out in the distance.

92A                                                                   92A
      INT. STAIRWELL - NIGHT

      Top shot on stairwell.

      It's Sue, walking up the stairs of her building, back from
      her night out, accompanied by a MAN (25-30), wearing a
      leather jacket and carrying a motorbike helmet.

      They stop regularly to kiss each other passionately.

      They stumble and laugh. We quickly understand that they're
      both completely drunk.

92B                                                                   92B
      INT. LANDING - NIGHT

      In front of her apartment, he pushes her against the door and
      kisses her, grabbing hold of her ass with both hands. The
      ultra-tight leather of her catsuit seems to increase the
      sensations... Sue is overwhelmed with desire...



                                                                   - 59 -
  
                                                          ...sc 92B


     She finally frees herself gently from his embrace.

                               SUE
                     I have to go...

93                                                                    93
     INT. SECRET ROOM - NIGHT
     The last drops are sucked up from the I.V Bag. They go
     through the perfusion pipe and up into Elisabeth's arm.

     A beat.

     We hear the sound of the front door opening and closing.

     Footsteps amplifying, which start to run then slow down.

     Sounds of chairs moving. Glasses chiming.

     A low voice. A high pitched voice. The sound of laughter.

     Suddenly, SMASH! The sound of broken glass.

     CUT TO

94                                                                    94
     INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

     ...A broken glass smashed into pieces at Sue's feet right in
     the middle of the living room's hardwood floor. The lights
     are now on and Sue looks up at the man who's holding up a
     whiskey bottle in one hand, as if frozen in his gesture...

     She looks at him fixedly... before bursting into laughter.

     They're completely hammered.

     They let themselves fall back on the sofa.

     A slight tinnitus starts buzzing in Sue's ears, but she
     ignores it, sits astride the guy and they start kissing.(we
     see the silhouette of them kissing in the mirrored visor of
     the motorbike helmet nearby)

     The sexual tension soars. The man caresses Sue's crotch with
     his hand, brushing his lips over her neck. His tongue slides
     up the silky nape of her neck. Sue's skin tingles with goose-
     bumps aroused by all the new sensations bursting inside her.

95                                                                    95
     INT. SECRET ROOM - NIGHT

     A very slight plastic squeaking noise is heard. Crrrriiii...

     It's the perfusion bag which is now empty and starting to
     shrivel with nothing left to suck up.




                                                                  - 60 -
 
                                                            ...sc 96

96                                                                    96
      INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
      They kiss more and more greedily... plip ... a drop of blood
      falls on the guy's white t-shirt...

      But Sue decides to ignore it; her eyes glowing more
      feverishly every second, she takes off the guy's t shirt...

      Slides her hands down his naked chest...

97                                                                    97
      INT. SECRET ROOM - NIGHT

      CRRRRRiiiii The sound of plastic is increasingly high pitched
      as the empty perfusion bag crumples up more and more.

98                                                                    98
      INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

      Sue's hands reach for the man's trousers... and unbuckle his
      belt...

99                                                                    99
      INT. SECRET ROOM - NIGHT

      CRRRRRiiiiiiiiii the perfusion bag desperately tries to
      suck something in...

100                                                                   100
      INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
      Sue unbuttons his trousers and slips her hand into his boxer
      shor...

      Plip plip plip plip the drops of blood fall on the man's
      chest at an escalating rhythm...

      THE SOUND IS MUFFLED. THE IMAGE FLICKERS as if a black veil
      were intermittently being thrown over the screen.

                                MAN
                      Are you alright?

      Sue feels more and more overwhelmed... She starts hearing
      noises from inside her own body... Boom BOOM... Boom BOOM...
      her heartbeat accelerates.... BoomBOOMBoomBOOMBoomBOOM...

                                SUE
                      Give me a minute...

      She gets up and we follow her as she hurries into the hallway
      with a staggering step BoomBOOMBoomBOOMBoomBOOM
      BoomBOOMBoomBOOMBoomBOOM




                                                                 - 61 -
  
                                                              ...sc 101

101                                                                     101
      INT. BATHROOM / SECRET ROOM - NIGHT
      She locks herself in the bathroom, and opens the door
      communicating with the secret room to discover what she
      already knows...

      The nutrition bag is empty. It is now only a plastic
      compression shrivelled into itself as Elisabeth's body,
      increasingly pale, attempts to mechanically suck up what
      isn't there...

      Sue hunches over the sink as the drops of blood grow more
      frequent; her tinnitus blares loudly inside her head, the
      pain is unbearable.

      She HAS to switch.

      FUCK! What shitty timing!

      We can sense all her frustration explode, while she looks at
      Elisabeth's lifeless body on the ground.

      This body that she has no desire to get back into...

                                MAN (O.S.)
                      Are you alright?

      Sue looks at herself in the mirror... the camera slowly
      tightens on her shining eyes... as if an idea was taking
      shape in her mind...

                                SUE
                      YES I'LL BE RIGHT BACK!

      She opens the small bathroom cabinet and looks at the
      puncture needle...

      ...the second nutrition bag...

      Her foot presses down on the pedal of the trash can - CLACK �
      revealing the seven small empty vials at the bottom of the
      bucket...

      She looks down at them for a long moment, her eyes
      shining...(she grabs the vial)

                                                           CUT TO:

102                                                                     102
      INT. SECRET ROOM - NIGHT

      SUE'S MANICURED HAND clips one of the empty vials onto the
      puncture syringe...

      She flips the matrix onto her side... AND SLOWLY LIFTS UP THE
      BANDAGE on her back...




                                                                     - 62 -
  
                                                             ...sc 102


      After a short moment of hesitation during which she looks at
      the puncture site, contemplating what she's about to do...
      Sue casts aside her last doubts...

      ... AND SHE SLOWLY PUSHES THE LONG NEEDLE into Elisabeth's
      spinal column...

      ELISABETH'S GLAZED EYE STARING INTO SPACE - her pupil
      slightly trembles while Sue pulls slowly on the plunger and
      the transparent fluid starts to trickle into the syringe...

                                SUE
                      Just a few more hours...

      Once the vial is half full, Sue unclips it and SWIK! Jabs
      herself in the thigh, as she does everyday, when it's her
      week.

      HER PUPIL DILATES � She closes her eyes for a few moments, as
      her body absorbs the shot... She can hear her heartbeat
      slowing down, the ringing in her head abates...

      She hurries to plug in the second perfusion bag, which was
      normally meant for her, in Elisabeth's arm. A small gurgling
      sound... then a bubble rises up inside the pipe... and the
      thick liquid starts slowly making its way up the tubing...

      Slowly but surely, Elisabeth's breathing becomes normal
      again.

                                                          CUT TO:

103                                                                    103
      INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
      The man opens his eyes and Sue is once again straddling him,
      like an apparition, very close to his face.

                                MAN
                      Mmmm...
                          (needing a moment to
                           reconnect)
                      ...what did you do? You seem even
                      more beautiful than befor-

      She starts kissing him. More and more greedily.

      THE MAN PLACES HIS HANDS ON HER THIGHS... kneading the
      leather while making their way to her ass...

104                                                                    104
      INT. SECRET ROOM - NIGHT

      INSIDE THE DARK ROOM - Elisabeth's limp and heavy thigh lies
      still on the cold tiles.

      Her foot dangling.



                                                                    - 63 -
  
                                                           ...sc 104


      The second bag of food attached to her arm which slowly
      empties...

105                                                                   105
      INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
      CROSS-DISSOLVE ON THE MAN'S HANDS as they work their way up
      Sue's ass to her waist...

106                                                                   106
      INT. SECRET ROOM - NIGHT

      IN THE DARK ROOM - The yellowish paste that makes it way up
      the IV tube with a small gurgling noise.

107                                                                   107
      INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

      IN THE LIVING ROOM - THE MAN'S HANDS CLOSING AROUND SUE'S
      WAIST, SLIDING UP HER BACK... arriving at her neck and slowly
      pulling down the zipper of her catsuit.

      The zipper slides slowly down Sue's back...and we see...

                              SPEW OUT OF
                OF HER INSIDE ORGANS
      ...ALL
      THE SUIT AS THE ZIPPER GOES DOWN AS
      THOUGH IT WERE OPENING SUE'S BODY
      IN TWO...
      HER ORGANS SPLATTER ON THE FLOOR IN A BLOODY MAGMA-
      LIKE MASS:

      SPLOTCH!
108                                                                   108
      INT. SECRET ROOM - DAY

      AHAAAAAAAAAAA ... ELISABETH wakes up with a start inside
      the secret room. She coughs, spits, clutches her throat... as
      though she had been asphyxiated.

      Sue's body is lying next to her in stasis on the other side
      of the switch pipe.

      It takes a moment for the horrific nightmare to fade as
      Elisabeth tries to gather her wits. Ouch... We can tell that
      her whole body aches and that she is in a fog.

      She looks confused when she discovers... the small empty vial
      on the ground next to her... and the second perfusion bag
      which has already been emptied half a notch's worth.

      She clips it onto Sue's arm and she goes into the bathroom.


                                                                 - 64 -
  
                                                               ...sc 109

109                                                                   109
      INT. BATHROOM - DAY
      She puts her bathrobe on. A glance in the mirror: she looks
      dreadful... and she has an enormous hangover. She touches her
      back, it's a bit sore.

110                                                                   110
      INT. CORRIDOR / LIVING ROOM - DAY

      She walks down the hallway dragging her feet. It's day now. A
      beat as she discovers... Sue's clothing strewn on the floor:
      her boots... her leather catsuit... her lingerie... They make
      a trail down the hallway all the way to the bed, which we see
      from afar: unmade, rumpled sheets attesting to a night of
      lovemaking.

      We can see that Elisabeth is trying to connect with her
      memories of the night before... but she doesn't seem to
      remember a thing.

      She makes her way to the living room where she discovers the
      aftermath of the evening's festivities: half-empty glasses,
      full ashtrays...

      She walks towards the picture window - a post-it note is
      stuck on it:

                            Too drunk to take the bike home,
                                 keep an eye on her ;)

                                         TROY (812 674 839!)

      Elisabeth reaches out to grab the post-it note AND SHE
      IMMEDIATELY RETRACTS HER HAND as if she'd seen something
      awful, something frightening...

      She slowly lifts her hand into her field of vision...and in
      complete shock she sees...

      ...her finger.

      Her index finger is crooked and swollen, deformed with
      arthritis... her fingernail is yellow and the skin withered
      like an old woman's finger - while the rest of her hand is
      normal.

      WHAT THE F...!

111                                                                   111
      OMITTED

112                                                                   112
      INT. BATHROOM - DAY

      She turns around and hurries into the bathroom, runs the cold
      water in the sink and puts her index finger under the faucet.
      She scrubs and scrubs her finger, but to no avail, the
      deformation is still there.


                                                                   - 65 -
  
                                                           ...sc 112


      She stares at her index finger.

      The horribly withered skin.

      The protruding and swollen blue veins.

      The deformed knuckles.

      She closes her eyes, tensing her face...and her expression
      hardens as what happened becomes progressively clear to her.

      She looks at Sue's body on the floor.

      The stranded empty vial next to her.

      She lowers the back of her bathrobe and twists around, trying
      to see the reflection of her back in the mirror.

      The puncture site is red, slightly swollen... and ouch...
      painful to touch.

      She closes her eyes a moment, her hand clinging to the sink's
      edge, with this deformed finger that stands out against the
      white porcelain.

      Fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck...

113                                                                   113
      INT. KITCHEN - DAY
      Elisabeth sits at the table, on the phone.

      The insistent ringing tone...

      Bri-ing...Bri-ing..

      Through the picture window, Sue's gigantic billboard staring
      right back at her in silence.

      Her bright, dazzling smile...



                                 PUMP IT UP
      Bri-ing...Bri-ing

      Yes?

      Elisabeth sits up straighter in her chair when the cavernous
      voice answers.

                                    ELISABETH
                      Yes hi...

      She winces a little, her back slightly in pain.



                                                                  - 66 -
  
                                                     ...sc 113


                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                    (clearing her throat.)
                This is Elisabeth Sparkle.

Silence on the other end of the line.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                ...on Beverly drive?

Still nothing.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                ...I am uh...
                    (hesitant)
                ...503?

Yes.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                Yes... Hi...

An embarrassed pause. She's gathering her courage as she
stares at her deformed finger.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                Listen... there has been a
                slight...

She's walking on eggshells, carefully choosing her words.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                ...misuse... of The Substance...

She nervously rubs her index finger.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                A few extra hours were...
                accidentally used...causing...
                    (a beat)
                ...an alteration.

Long silence at the other end of the line.

Nothing but the crackling.

Elisabeth wiggles, uneasy in her chair.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                So... what's the procedure to
                reverse it?

A long beat. The line crackles.

What has been used on one side is lost on the other side.

There is no going back.

A beat.


                                                            - 67 -

                                                      ...sc 113


Elisabeth's shock and dismay.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                No, but, listen I don't know what
                she was thinking she was drunk
                obviousl-

Remember there is no "she" and "you", you are one.

Elisabeth closes her eyes, tensing her face to try and put
her thoughts in order.

                              ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                Right...

A beat.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                But I can't even remember what
                happened during the extra time! So
                there should b-

The balance is perfect at seven days.

Respect the balance and you won't have any more
inconveniences.

A beat. The line goes dead.

Elisabeth doesn't move for a long moment, as if she were hit
by a ton of bricks.

Then she gets up abruptly and starts automatically cleaning
up after the prior evening's festivities, so as to try and
channel her emotions.

She empties the glasses and the ashtrays.

Disgusting.

She goes to the picture window, rips off the post-it note.

She crumples the post-it into a ball, which she throws into
the garbage.

She takes the trash bag out of the can and triple knots the
ties.

She throws the motorbike helmet out on the landing.

VIEW FROM INSIDE THE TRASH CAN AS IT OPENS - she throws the
trash bag inside, covering the camera and thus creating
DARKNESS




                                                             - 68 -

                                                               ...sc 114

114                                                                   114
      INT. BATHROOM - EVENING
      It's night. Elisabeth, in her nightgown, looks at her
      reflection in the mirror with a harsh expression, as she
      brushes her teeth.

      THE GNARLED FINGER ON THE TOOTHBRUSH brushing back and
      forth... mixing saliva and toothpaste... brush up... brush
      down... up... down. Elisabeth lost in her thoughts...

      She gargles, spits and puts the toothbrush back in its glass.
      She picks up her night cream in a well-rehearsed ritual.

      She puts it on her face, still absorbed in her thoughts as
      the white cream penetrates her skin;

      She puts the cover back on the jar of cream and is about to
      put it back in place on the shelf... when she stops... she
      looks at the jar and focuses on the inscription:

                                   ULTIMATE YOUTH
                          Intensive regenerating night cream

      She slowly unscrews the jar top and stares at the glossy
      white cream inside...

      And then slowly, takes her crooked finger and progressively
      dips it into the cream... She sticks her finger all the way
      in until it is completely covered.

      She waits for a moment... carefully turning her finger in the
      white cream... and then slowly removing it; the finger now
      entirely covered in glistening white cream as though it was a
      poultice covering the skin.

      With her other hand she searches through the small cabinet
      and takes out a crepe bandage, which she wraps and knots
      around the cream-covered finger.

      Like a little doll in a cocoon at the end of her hand.

      She presses lightly on the doll... which oozes cream.

      Good. It's soaking in.

      She looks in the mirror and shuts off the light : BLACK

115                                                                   115
      INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

      Elisabeth lying in bed staring at the ceiling.

      HER BANDAGED HAND carefully resting palm down on the sheets.

      Her figure is entirely still in the darkness.




                                                                   - 69 -
  
                                                           ...sc 115


      Dominated by the palm tree's black shadow in the night, which
      looks like a giant spider.

                                                        CUT TO:

116                                                                   116
      I/E. BEDROOM / WINDOW PALM TREE - DAY
      THE GREEN PALM TREE AGAINST THE BRIGHT BLUE SKY

      IN THE BEDROOM, the sheets are bathed in sunlight; we can see
      the outline of where Elisabeth was lying in the bed, and we
      understand that she stayed perfectly still the entire night.

                                                        CUT TO:

117                                                                   117
      INT. BATHROOM - DAY

      THE HAND WITH THE BANDAGED FINGER spreads out over the sink.

      Elisabeth stays still for a moment, then she starts
      unwrapping the bandage... the anxiety in her eyes as she
      unrolls slowly revealing her finger...

      The dried out cream leaves a type of plaster-like crust
      covering the skin.

      She turns on the faucet and soaks her finger in the stream of
      water to dissolve the white crust.

      She delicately wipes her hand with a terry-cloth towel and
      stretches her hand out over the sink to see the result...

      Nothing has changed.

      Her finger is still just as wrinkled and deformed by
      arthritis; brownish age spots are scattered on her skin.

      Elisabeth's eyes fill with emotion which she does her best to
      channel as she tries to wrap her mind around this excrescence
      that is eating away at her hand.

      Her hand starts shaking, betraying how upset she really is.
      Her last hopes - that she knew were in vain - are swept away
      for good.

                                                        CUT TO:

118                                                                   118
      INT. KITCHEN - DAY

      THE KITCHEN TABLE IN THE FOREGROUND where a new big white
      note card is found:




                                                                   - 70 -
  
                                                                ...sc 118


                We hope you are enjoying your experience with
                                         THE SUBSTANCE
                 Your two week refill kit has been delivered
                             to your deposit box

      In the background, through the door that leads to the living
      room, we see the TV on, but we can't hear the sound, covered
      by a humming noise that grows louder...and louder...

      ...and Elisabeth is crossing the frame in the background as
      she's pushing the vacuum cleaner from left to right... then
      right to left... sweeping back and forth like a small
      foosball figurine moving straight in its axis...

                                                          CUT TO:

119                                                                    119
      INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY
      Elisabeth, concentrating on her vacuum cleaner sucking up the
      carpet as though hunting for the smallest piece of dust would
      help her avoid becoming overwhelmed by her thoughts.

      She looks up, about to turn around in the opposite direction,
      when something catches her attention from afar...

      She slows down, approaches carefully, and finally stops...her
      eyes engrossed, her pupils darting back and forth... the
      vacuum cleaner still humming... until she turns it off and
      pulsating music bursts out in its place:

      DON'T YOU KNOW PUMP IT UP...

      We discover that she is staring at the television screen...

      ...YOU'VE GOT TO PUMP IT UP...

      Where SUE is energetically swaying her hips in her new show.

      DON'T YOU KNOW PUMP IT UP...

      Elisabeth has a moment of confusion. Befuddled.

      YOU'VE GOT TO PUMP IT UP...
      A disturbing vision of Sue in the place that used to be hers.

      DON'T YOU KNOW PUMP IT UP...YOU'VE GOT TO PUMP IT
      UP...
      Elisabeth grabs the side of the armchair to balance herself,
      slowly sitting down while watching Sue moving on the
      screen...

      DON'T YOU KNOW PUMP IT UP...
                                                                    - 71 -
  
                                                     ...sc 119


Her dazzling smile.

Her firm and insolent breasts.


YOU'VE GOT TO PUMP I-
Elisabeth turns the sound off, but continues to watch the
show, as if fascinated by the details of Sue's body moving in
rhythm to the ghostly beat of the now muted music.

Her slender thighs.

Her suggestive hip movements...

Her abs tightening in a close up.

Once. Twice. Ten times. Thirty times...

On screen, with beaming and seductive eyes...

                           SUE
                "In the meantime... Take care of
                yourself!"

...Sue blows a kiss to the camera, disarming her viewers with
a devastating smile.

A suspended beat... as though the two women exchanged a look
through the screen...

Click Elisabeth switches off the TV.

She remains silent for a moment.

Overwhelmed.

Her gnarled, deformed finger on the TV remote.

Sprawled across the armchair in her bathrobe.

She looks up: behind the turned-off TV, the billboard of SUE
staring back at her through the glass window, smiling with
all her pearly-whites:



                           PUMP IT UP
It's as if she were cornered from all sides.

BZZZZ
She jumps at the sound of the front door buzzer.

Who the hell is that...


                                                          - 72 -

                                                            ...sc 119


      BZZZZ BZZZZ

120                                                                   120
      INT. APT ENTRANCE / APT CORRIDOR - DAY
      She approaches the door without making any noise.

      HER GNARLED FINGER opens the peephole cover, and she looks
      through it:

      The neighbor.

      Fuck. What does he want...

      She doesn't move; doesn't make any noise.

      BZZZZ BZZZZZZ
      Go the fuck away, egg head...

      BZZZZZZZZZZZ
                                    OLIVER (O.S.)
                      Sue?

      He starts softly scratching the door.

                                NEIGHBOR (O.S.)
                      It's Oliver...

      A beat.

                                NEIGHBOR (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                      I just saw you on TV... Holy moley
                      makes me want to join your class!
                      Do you give private lessons?

      A long silence.

                                NEIGHBOR (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                      What about a drink at my place
                      tonight?

      Elisabeth stands without moving or making noise, her gnarled
      finger on the peephole.

                                NEIGHBOR (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                      I can see you standing behind
                      there... don't be shy gorgeous!
                          (a long beat)
                      I'm into sports too, I can show you
                      my chess trophies!

      A long beat. Elisabeth doesn't move.




                                                                   - 73 -
  
                                                               ...sc 120


                                 NEIGHBOR (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                       Alright, no problem, take your
                       time... But it's a date!

       We see him finally waddling back inside his apartment,
       humming along: don't you know pump it up...

       THE WRINKLED FINGER lets go of the peephole cover. SHLACK!

                                                            CUT TO:

121                                                                      121
       INT. SHOWER - DAY

       HISSSSSSSSSSSS THE STREAM OF WATER FROM THE SHOWER HEAD
       PUMMELS ELISABETH'S BACK.

       Her hand against the wall for support, letting the water flow
       down her body, as she stares at the ground, lost in her
       thoughts, as if she were trying to regain her footing.

122                                                                      122
       INT. APARTMENT / ENTRANCE - DAY
       Elisabeth finishes slipping her coat on, turns up the collar
       and puts on leather gloves to hide her problem finger.

       She looks through the peephole. The coast is clear.

123A                                                                    123A
       EXT. STREET (ELISABETH AREA) - DAY

       We follow Elisabeth from behind, walking quickly.

123B                                                                    123B
       EXT. STREET (LESS NICE STREET)- DAY

       Elisabeth, from behind, who is walking down another street.

       Her gait is jittery. Everything seems more harsh and
       aggressive.

123C                                                                    123C
       OMITTED

123D                                                                    123D
       INT. DEPOSIT CORRIDOR - DAY

       Elisabeth walks down the corridor.

124                                                                      124
       INT. DEPOSIT/LOBBY - DAY

       A wave of her card opens her locker. Beep.

       She thinks she hears a slight noise behind her. She turns
       around. Scans the lobby. No one.



                                                                      - 74 -
   
                                                                  ...sc 124


       She takes out the package and puts it in her bag.

125A                                                                     125A
       EXT. STREET (LESS NICE STREET) - DAY
       Elisabeth walking in the opposite direction.

       After a while, she has a strange feeling. As if she were
       being followed. She turns around... still no one.

       She picks up the pace.

125B                                                                     125B
       EXT. STREE (DINER AREA) - DAY

       Still from behind Elisabeth's back as she walks.

       Turns around again. Still nothing.

       She finally goes into a diner.

126                                                                          126
       INT. DINER - DAY

       She sits down in a booth. Moves to another. She's hot. Takes
       off her coat. Starts removing her glove... then decides
       against it, readjusting the right glove in particular.

                                 WAITRESS (O.S)
                       What can I get you?

       Startled, she jumps and looks up: a SEXY WAITRESS with a name
       tag that reads ALLISON is staring at her, notepad in hand.

                                 ELISABETH
                           (random)
                       Uh...a...mocha latte.

       The waitress leaves.

       A beat: Elisabeth meticulously readjusts her glove.

                                 MAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
                       It's long, isn't it?

       Elisabeth       turns her head. At the next table is a SWEATY,
       OBESE MAN       muffled up in a gray coat, staring right at her. He
       has a big       strawberry birthmark on his face, whose shape is
       strangely       familiar...

                                      ELISABETH
                       Excuse me?

                                 MAN
                       Seven days...

       She stares directly at him... nonplussed...



                                                                       - 75 -
       THE SUBSTANCE    -   May 3rd 2022
                                                     ...sc 126


                          MAN (CONT'D)
                I know what "these weeks" feel
                like...

A beat. She is increasingly confused... she looks away from
him pretending she has no idea what he is referring to.

                          ALLISON (O.S.)
                Whipped cream?

The waitress is in front of her again, a can of whipped cream
in hand, her coffee on the table.

                          ELISABETH
                Uh...yes...

PZZZZZZZZZZT

Elisabeth stares at the whipped cream which slowly shrivels
up, melting into the coffee.

She takes a spoonful, as if to comfort herself.

She watches the man from the corner of her eye as he picks up
the menu to order. His wallet, which was on top of the menu,
falls to the ground. As he leans over to pick it up,
Elisabeth glimpses on the nape of his neck... the beginning
of a thick pink scar similar to her own, which disappears
under his shirt collar... He gathers up all the credit cards
that have scattered on the floor: among them is a white
plastic card with 207 on it. He puts it away in his wallet
and sits back up.

A long beat where they stare at each other.

Everything muddles up in Elisabeth's mind...

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                ...Did you follow me here?

                          MAN
                I was just curious to see how
                things were going for you... And
                actually I wouldn't be against a
                little bit of company... It's just
                good to... talk to someone... you
                know. Each time you feel a little
                more lonely... don't you think?

A long beat where she stares right at him.

                          ELISABETH
                I don't know what you're talking
                about. I'm fine, thank you.
                Everything is fine.

She turns her back to him and tries to make it look like she
is engrossed in her coffee.


                                                          - 76 -

                                                            ...sc 126


                                 MAN (O.S.)
                       It gets harder each time to
                       remember that you still deserve to
                       exist...

       The whipped cream that shrivels up more and more like a
       deflated balloon...

                                 MAN (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                       ...That this part of yourself is
                       still worth something...
                           (a beat)
                       That you still matter...

       The melted whipped cream now looks like yellowish puke.

                                  MAN (CONT'D)
                           (muttering to himself)
                       He should-
                           (SMACK! He slaps himself,
                            almost like a tic)
                       I should never have given it to
                       you. But he's so (SMACK!
                       Another)...shallow and
                       superficial!!

       Elisabeth's mind is a jumble of confusion. She searches in
       her bag, pays the check with a $10 dollar bill to cut short
       and heads for the exit.

                                 MAN (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                           (loud, towards her)
                       Has she started yet?

       Elisabeth turns around. A beat where they exchange a long
       look.

                                 MAN (CONT'D)
                       ...eating away at you?

       A suspended moment... staring fixedly into each other's
       eyes... until Elisabeth turns abruptly on her heels and
       rushes for the door as fast as she can.

127A                                                                  127A
       EXT. STREET (DINRE AREA) - DAY
       Elisabeth returns home with a hurried step...

127B                                                                  127B
       EXT. STREET (ELISABETH BUILDING) - DAY

       ...looking over her shoulder several times to check that she
       hasn't been followed when- BAM!

       She violently slams into someone coming from the opposite
       direction. CLANG clang clang... A big biker's helmet falls to
       the ground and rolls away.


                                                                   - 77 -
   
                                                             ...sc 127B


                                MALE VOICE
                      Fuck! Watch out!

      Elisabeth, dazed and frantic, looks at the leather-clad guy
      who picks up his helmet and straightens up facing her: TROY.

      She is so very stunned that she stays planted right there,
      staring at him.

                                TROY
                      WHAT?... You wanna mug shot?!?

      Royally pissed, he gets on his motorcycle parked in front of
      her building, puts his helmet on and slams the visor shut:
      SHLACK! Elisabeth's haggard face is reflected in the mirrored
      visor.

      He beeps his horn so she'll get out of the way.

                                    TROY (CONT'D)
                      HEY! MOVE!

      She finally steps to the side and he roars off on his
      motorcycle, revving its big engine: VROOOOOOOOOOOOOM

128                                                                     128
      INT. APARTMENT / ENTRANCE - DAY
      Slamming her door shut behind her, Elisabeth leans back
      against it for a moment to gather her wits.

      She stays for a long while this way, trying to channel all
      the thoughts and feelings jostling in her brain...

      We can tell that her mind is racing (obsessively).

                                                           CUT TO:

129                                                                     129
      INT. WALK IN CLOSET - DAY

      POV FROM INSIDE THE CLOSET - SHLACK Elisabeth abruptly pushes
      all of Sue's clothing aside to reach her belongings at the
      very back in stacked-up boxes marked: ELISABETH'S OLD JUNK.

      She opens different boxes and finally finds the one she is
      looking for: a box filled with her handbags. She shakes the
      bags upside down one after the other making the various
      forgotten objects fall out... coins, parking tickets, chewing
      gum... Ah! She finally finds what she is looking for: the
      torn piece of crinkled paper with FRED'S number on it.

      Fred's smiling image appears superimposed:

                                FRED
                      You are still the most beautiful
                      girl in the whole wide world!



                                                                     - 78 -
  
                                                               ...sc 129


      She holds the paper tightly against her chest, as if suddenly
      this was the most precious of her possessions.

130                                                                      130
      INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY
      Elisabeth starts dialing the number, slightly nervous.

      Behind the picture window, her eyes glance inadvertently at
      the billboard.



                                 PUMP IT UP
                                                            CUT TO:

131                                                                      131
      INT. BATHROOM - DAY
      Elisabeth has "isolated" herself in the bathroom, sitting on
      the closed toilet lid.

      She dials the number. We hear the sound of the line ringing
      and after a beat someone picks up.

                                    FRED (O.S.)
                      Hello?

                                ELISABETH
                          (forcing a cheerful tone)
                      Hi Fred, it's Lizzie!

      Silence.

      Nothing. She is immediately shaken.

                                ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                      ...Lizzie from tenth grade
                      homeroom?

      Silence again.

                                    ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                      ...hello?

                                FRED
                      Sorry, I'm in shock... wow wow wow!

      This reassures Elisabeth and makes her smile.

                                FRED (CONT'D)
                      I thought I would never hear from
                      you again after sharing my dumb
                      toothpaste story...




                                                                      - 79 -
  
                                                        ...sc 131


                          ELISABETH
                Oh no...not at all, it's just that
                I've been very... busy lately...

A beat.

                          FRED
                I heard about your show... how are
                you dealing? It must have been so
                difficult...

                          ELISABETH
                    (faking confidence)
                Oh no...You know, I kinda provoked
                it in a way... I felt like.. I'd
                seen and done it all... I needed to
                move on.

                          FRED
                Oh... that's good to hear... so
                what are you up to now?

A beat. Elisabeth is still sitting on the toilet lid.

                          ELISABETH
                I... I'm traveling... A lot. It's
                great - there is so much to see!
                One day here, the next there...
                it's a tad exhausting, though...

                          FRED
                Oh wow...what an exciting life! I
                envy you.

A beat.

                          ELISABETH
                So... I happen to be in town for a
                couple of days and... I thought
                maybe we could...
                    (moves her arm in a
                     gesture of self-
                     encouragement)
                ... go out and grab a drink? Or for
                a walk, or... you know, the little
                things that make life matter.

A beat. Long silence.

                              ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                Hello?

                          FRED
                Sorry I'm in shock again.

Another smile. A wider one this time.




                                                            - 80 -

                                                            ...sc 131


                                    FRED (CONT'D)
                      Like...to-

                                ELISABETH
                      Tonight is perfect!

      A beat.

                                ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                      Oh...did you mean tomorrow?

      Clearly.

                                FRED
                      Euh...Tonight is fine as well. I
                      can book Luigi's at 8?

                                ELISABETH
                      8 at Luigi's it is! See you
                      tonight!

      She hangs up. Her eyes are shining, cheeks are flushed, like
      a teenager who has been asked out on her first date.

                                                         CUT TO:

132                                                                   132
      INT. BEDROOM - EVENING
      Lots of activity in the apartment. All the boxes have been
      taken out - clothing, shoes, accessories are scattered across
      the bedroom floor.

                                                         CUT TO:

      A zipper is pulled up following the pinkish scar on
      Elisabeth's back... the scar disappears as the zipper glides
      up a beautiful moir� silk dress.

      Elisabeth looks at her back reflected in the bedroom's tall
      mirror. Impossible to see the long scar underneath. Perfect.

      From the front, the V-cut neckline flatters her pretty
      cleavage.

      She slips on long black satin gloves that hide her problem
      finger and add a touch of glamour.

      Thus prettily dressed, she looks at herself in the mirror...
      and is moved by her reflection.

      For the first time, in a very long time, she seems to like
      herself again.

      To once again feel that she's worth it...




                                                                   - 81 -
  
                                                            ...sc 133

133                                                                   133
      INT. BATHROOM - END OF THE DAY
      She finishes putting on her make-up and checks the clock. She
      grows increasingly nervous as the time to meet her date
      approaches.

      A last touch of lipstick, and she looks at herself,
      satisfied.

      She tidies her hair and flashes a smile in the mirror - the
      lipstick is becoming to her smile. Good.

      Before leaving she goes to close the secret room's door...
      and catches sight of Sue lying on the floor in stasis.

      Her healthy complexion...

      Her well-defined, plump lips...

      Elisabeth turns to the mirror, her expression a little
      gloomy...

      She suddenly has the impression that her entire face has just
      sagged.

      But she forces herself to pull it together.

      She adds a bit of lipstick, another stroke of blush to make
      her cheekbones rosier.

      A beat.

      More blush.

      She forces a smile as she looks at herself.

      Good.

      Takes a deep breath... And turns off the light.

                                                        CUT TO:

134                                                                   134
      INT. HALLWAY / LIVING ROOM - EVENING

      She walks down the hallway, grabs her coat and handbag...
      searches for her keys... sees them on the table in the living
      room. Walking over to the table she looks up and her eyes
      fall upon... the huge billboard outside.



                               PUMP IT UP
      A suspended moment standing face to face with Sue's gigantic
      overly-sexualized body:


                                                                   - 82 -
  
                                                            ...sc 134


      Her perfectly round, perky breasts.

      Her luscious lips...

      Her gorgeous shiny hair...

                                                         CUT TO:

135                                                                   135
      INT. BATHROOM - EVENING
      THE BATHROOM LIGHT TURNS ON - Elisabeth is back in front of
      the mirror.

      A harsh expression as she contemplates her face: this won't
      do at all.

      She pulls up the fabric on her dress to hide her cleavage
      which all of a sudden can't even compare. She throws a wrap
      over her shoulders to cover it.

      And the lipstick is all wrong. She takes it off and puts on
      another.

      She adds more blush. Brush strokes to her cheekbones, in an
      increasingly aggressive fashion.

      She lets her hair down.

      No, she puts her hair back up.

      Ok.

      More blush and a forced smile as she looks in the mirror.

      She checks the clock, this time she really needs to get
      going.

      She takes a deep breath to boost herself...

      Good...

      And she turns off the light.

      BLACK

136                                                                   136
      INT. CORRIDOR / ENTRANCE / LIVING ROOM - EVENING

      Walking down the hallway, she forces herself not to look in
      the living room... but just when she is about to open the
      front door...

      Her face tenses... she is struggling as she is about to grab
      the big, round metal doorknob... where we discover that she
      can see her reflection.




                                                                   - 83 -
  
                                                              ...sc 136


      She tries to disregard the distorted hamster face that is
      reflected by the metallic sphere.

      Behind her the billboard looms... as if she could sense it
      even with her back turned: all that fresh collagen, that body
      overflowing with perfection...

      She tries to stay strong... her eyes shut tight to not see
      her reflection as her hand approaches the doorknob...

                                                        CUT TO:

137                                                                   137
      INT. BATHROOM - EVENING
      Elisabeth in front of the bathroom mirror; a dour, accusatory
      look in her eyes as she looks at her reflection:

      Disgusting.

      She uses a cotton pad to wipe the lipstick off her face with
      a slow and harsh gesture, smearing it onto her cheek like a
      bloody gash.

138                                                                   138
      INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

      Elisabeth is sitting in her bathrobe on the bed, her make-up
      removed and her hair down, her skin reddened from repeatedly
      putting her make-up on and taking it off.

      We see her from behind, slightly stooped, facing the window.

      Outside, the HUGE palm tree.

      Its CRUSHING VERTICALITY.

      On the night table, her telephone lights up with a slew of
      messages from "FRED" who has visibly been trying to reach her
      for some time.

                                                       FADE IN:

139                                                                   139
      INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

      The living room plunged in darkness. A faint, flickering
      light from the television.

      From behind the big armchair, we see Elisabeth's hand on the
      armrest.

      A long moment on the TV, with its endless babbling...

      (off we hear the neighbor knocking at the front door t:
      "Birdy? Birdy Sue?")




                                                                   - 84 -
  
                                                             ...sc 139


       Then, after a long while, the bathrobed figure gets up and
       crosses the living room, dragging her feet.

140                                                                    140
       INT. FRIDGE / KITCHEN - NIGHT
       POV FROM INSIDE THE REFRIGERATOR - THE DOOR OPENS: we see the
       bathrobe standing in front of the shelves filled with food.
       Not moving.

       In the foreground, a roast chicken amongst other groceries.

       The exasperating sound of the TV echoing from behind... Then
       the bathrobe grabs a plate with leftover quiche and closes
       the door, making everything go: BLACK.

                                                        FADE IN:

141A                                                                  141A
       INT. CORRIDOR / BATHROOM - DAY

       HISSSSSSSSSSSS

       FROM THE DARK LONG HALLWAY - through the bathroom doorframe
       we see the shower filled with steam. We hear the water
       running and can make out a figure inside the steamy shower.

                                                         CUT TO:

141B                                                                  141B
       INT. SHOWER - DAY

       THE SHOWER HEAD SPITS OUT its powerful stream of water on...

       SUE.

       A long moment during which she revels in the gush of hot
       water.

       The pleasure she exudes being back inside her body, enjoying
       her shapely self that awakens with the hot water.

       While lathering, she seems to feel something on her
       buttock...

       She twists around to look at her butt cheek.... She lightly
       presses on it with her hand... which reveals... a small bulge
       under the epidermis surrounded by unsightly orange-peel
       looking cellulite that mars the skin... what the f...? She
       lets go... and the bulge disappears... Her skin is smooth and
       immaculate once again. She presses on the spot... but it's
       gone...

       She waits a moment... then runs her palm over her butt,
       pressing on the area again... but everything is all right.

                                                         CUT TO:



                                                                    - 85 -
   
                                                                      ...sc 142

142                                                                            142
       INT. BEDROOM - DAY
       Wearing a towel, we follow her into the bedroom.

       She grabs her clothes, sits on the bed - and SPRINGS BACK UP
       immediately like a jack-in-the box. She felt something.

       She brushes her fingers over her butt cheek and stands in
       front of the bedroom mirror, contorting herself to look at
       her buttock... but no, there is nothing. She stands in front
       of the mirror for a long while to check. Everything is ok.

       Her impeccably shaped backside.

143                                                                            143
       EXT. STREET (GLAM & POP) - DAY

       We follow Sue from behind, walking with a lively step.

       Everything is hot. Colorful. Enhanced.

144A                                                                          144A
       INT. TV STUDIO / SUE'S DRESSING ROOM - DAY

       Sue changes into her leotard.

       She checks her ass in the mirror.

       Impeccable.

144B                                                                          144B
       INT. BACKSTAGE HALLWAY - DAY

       We follow her onto the soundstage.

145                                                                            145
       INT. TV STUDIO / PUMP IT UP SHOW - DAY

       She greets everybody, stretches to warm up.

       A last glance at her ass to make sure she looks all right.

       Perfect.

       She places herself center stage among the dancers.

       Everybody is ready to start taping the show.

       The cameramen are in place.

       The assistants.

       The control room.

                                     ASSISTANT DIRECTOR - PUMP IT UP SHOW
                       Ready Sue?




                                                                            - 86 -
   
                                                           ...sc 145


                          SUE
                    (big smile)
                Ready!

                          ASSISTANT DIRECTOR - PUMP IT UP SHOW
                Ok, places everyone. Silence.
                    (counting down with her
                     fingers)
                3... 2... 1...

Cameras on - recording.

Sue's face IMMEDIATELY FLASHES HER GREAT BIG TOOTHY SMILE

                          SUE
                Hi everybody! I'm Sue and it's time
                to pump it up! Are you ready? LET'S
                GO!

The music starts.

Don't you know pump it up...

you've got to pump it up...

She goes right into her routine, accompanied by the dancers
to the rhythm of the fast-paced music.

Cameras traveling behind the group catch their backsides
contracting to the music.

Endless smiles and aerobic routines one after the other.

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                Come on now... STEP! STEP!

Sue seamlessly leads them through the choreographed sequence.

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                NOW SQUEEZE THOSE BUTT MUSCLES and
                SQUAT! SQUAT! SQUAT!

Sue runs her hand over her butt to show the movement.

                              SUE (CONT'D)
                SQUA...

She stops short, losing the rhythm; she's upset.

She felt something.

A pregnant pause. One by one, the dancers stop as well.

The cameras stop recording.

The music stops.

Everybody looks at her.


                                                                 - 87 -

                                                      ...sc 145


                          SUE (CONT'D)
                I... I thought that...

She slides her hand over her butt cheek and discreetly looks
at it.

There's nothing.

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                Sorry I... something distracted me.

                          CONTROL ROOM VOICE
                Not a problem. Let's get right back
                to it.

Everyone gets back in place.

Sue anxiously slides her hand once again over her butt cheek -
everything is okay.

Everybody gets back in their places. The assistant mouths the
countdown:

3...2...1

Recording:

                          SUE
                Hi everybody! I'm Sue and it's time
                to pump it up! Are you ready? Let's
                go!

The music starts.

Don't you know pump it up...

The soldiers begin the choreography.

You've got to pump it up...
Still the same rhythm, over and over.

Don't you know pump it up...
You've got to pump it up...
                          SUE (CONT'D)
                Come on now, STEP... STEP! CONTRACT
                THOSE BUTT MUSCLES!

Once again she puts her hand on her butt cheek to show the
muscle she is working.

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                AND SQUAT! SQUAT! SQUAT! SQUAT!




                                                             - 88 -

                                                           ...sc 145


Everything goes smoothly this time. She goes through the
choreography of movements.

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                Come on now, KEEP IT UP! KEEP IT
                UP!

A long sequence where the series of movements are rolled out
one after the other.

Don't you know pump it up... you've got to pump it up...

Don't you know pump it up... you've got to pump it up...

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                And bend over, head between your
                legs!

She bends over and sticks her head between her legs...
Schlurrrp The bulge reappears, distorting her butt.

She abruptly straightens back up as if she'd been
electrocuted... Fuck!

She loses her balance, almost falling over. A dancer catches
her just in time. Everybody stops.

The music stops, again. The cameras stop.

This time everybody is a little bewildered.

Sue, dripping in sweat, discreetly checks herself out...
everything is okay. What the fuck is going on?

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                    (increasingly stressed
                     out)
                I'm sorry... I... skipped a step.

                          CONTROL ROOM VOICE
                Okay, everybody back in place, we
                can't afford to lose too much time,
                there's another show taping right
                after us.

The crew for the next show is already waiting backstage.

                          FLOOR RUNNER
                    (to Sue)
                Can I get you something? Water?

                          SUE
                No, I'm fine, let's get right back
                to it!
                    (motivating the troops and
                     herself)
                Ok, third time's a charm, this is
                it!


                                                               - 89 -

                                                            ...sc 145


Sue's stress level is rising as she feels everyone's eyes on
her, watching for the next trip up.

Everyone gets back in position. The cameras. The assistant
who gives the countdown. 3...2...1

Recording.

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                Hi everybody! I'm Sue and it's time
                to pump it up! Are you ready? Let's
                go!

They start again from the beginning. The music is
increasingly unbearable.

Don't you know pump it up...
You've got to pump it up...
Don't you know pump it up...
You've got t-
The music stops.

Yet everything was going fine this time.

Sue gives a questioning glance: what's going on?

She sees the crew bustling about... Someone is giving
instructions through a walkie-talkie. The info is passed from
person to person, walkie-talkie to walkie-talkie.

                           ASSISTANT DIRECTOR - PUMP IT UP SHOW
                Sorry, it's the control room now.
                    (listening to her ear
                     piece)
                The director says he saw something
                bizarre on the monitor. He has to
                check it out.
                    (listening to her
                     earpiece)
                Which one?
                    (to the stage hands)
                Bring up the replay on camera 2!

Sue turns and sees that it's the camera... that is just
behind her ass.

Her stress level is rising... she pulls down on her leotard
bottom to better cover her ass, but the cut of the fabric
just won't allow for it.

Sue keeps her back close to the wall so that nobody can see
her ass in case the bulge returns.



                                                                  - 90 -

                                                           ...sc 145


      They have started the replay: on a giant screen at the back
      of the scenery, images of the troop rewind at top speed,
      making them look like ridiculous little marionettes shaking
      their legs and asses.

                                SUE
                      Can I have my dressing gown?

                                SUE'S ASSISTANT
                      ...sorry it's in your dressing
                      room...

                                SUE
                          (in a burst of anger)
                      Well, then GO GET IT!!!

      The video comes to a close up shot of Sue's ass.

      She's increasingly nervous as the control room gives the time
      code for the problematic frame while everyone is watching her
      ass, frame by frame on the giant screen...

      Sue's assistant finally returns with her cover up, which she
      throws on nervously before suddenly rushing down the hallway.

                                SUE (CONT'D)
                      I need a 5-minute break.

146                                                                   146
      INT. TV STUDIO / BACKSTAGE HALLWAY. DAY
      We follow her as she walks with a hurried step down the long
      hallway.

147                                                                   147
      INT. TV STUDIO / DRESSING ROOM         - DAY

      She comes to her dressing room, shuts herself inside and
      looks in the mirror.

      Slowly, she lifts the fabric of her leotard to discover...
      the bulge which has returned to the same spot as in the
      shower earlier... but bigger and uglier this time.

      What the hell...

      It's like an internal growth that is deforming her butt
      cheek... as though something were stuck under her skin.

      She lightly presses on the bulge and realizes that she can...
      move it... she pushes and palpates all around it... and with
      a small suction noise the bulge starts slowly moving under
      her skin - up her buttock and towards her waist.

                                  FLOOR RUNNER (O.S.)
                           (softly knocking on the
                            door)
                                  (MORE)


                                                                   - 91 -
  
                                                                ...sc 147
                                 FLOOR RUNNER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                      Sue, do you want some coffee or
                      something?

      She doesn't even answer. She is completely obsessed with the
      mass under her skin, which she pushes between her fingers
      sliding it around.

      ...the fatty lump moves slowly under her skin towards her
      waist...

      she pushes it again, guiding it around to her stomach...

      ...leading the fatty lump to her belly button.

      As the bulge approaches the skin under her belly button, she
      starts to see something in the center of her belly button...
      a sort of... like the end of a... she sticks her two fingers
      into her belly button to try and grab... sticking her fingers
      further in, she spreads apart the sides of her belly button
      in order to dig deeper to try and grip the end of whatever it
      is... she grabs the end and starts to pull it out...
      discovering little by little... an oblong shape that she
      slowly extricates... it's a...

                         DRUMSTICK...
      ...ROASTED...CHICKEN
      dripping with grease that she
      slowly extracts from her belly
      button with an icky slimy
      sound:SLUUURPUH!!!!
      AND HER BELLY BUTTON CLOSES BACK UP
      LIKE AN ANUS WITH A SUCTION NOISE!!!

148                                                                    148
      INT. SECRET ROOM - NIGHT

      AHAAAAAAAAAA...AND SUE WAKES UP WITH A START!!!!!!!!
      SWEATING BULLETS IN THE SECRET ROOM

      FUCK!

      The matrix in stasis is lying on the floor at the other end
      of the switch pipe next to her.

      Sue is bathed in sweat. She checks her stomach... her ass...
      both are impeccable and perfect, trying to regain her wits as
      this horrible nightmare fades.

      WHAT A MINDFUCK... A goddamn mindfuck...




                                                                    - 92 -
  
                                                             ...sc 148


      She throws an accusatory look at Elisabeth who is on the
      floor, and we follow her...

149                                                                    149
      OMITTED

150                                                                    150
      INT. HALLWAY / LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

      ...as she goes down the corridor.. Entering the living room
      she stops... and stares at something that is right in front
      of her.

      Close up low angle shot that shows the anger rising in her
      harsh eyes...

      In reverse angle we see what she is staring at...

      A BIG CHICKEN CARCASS entirely picked to pieces on the coffee
      table. Chicken bones and potato leftovers smeared on a plate.
      An empty pint of ice cream. Chocolate bars recklessly munched
      down to the last square.

      She looks at the deeper imprint left on the big armchair...

      Traces of greasy fingerprints on the TV remote control.

      Big slippers left on the carpet.

      She totters a little and sits in the armchair to collect
      herself.

      Fuck, what a total lack of control...Revolting...

      She nervously rubs her belly, thighs, hunching over, sticking
      her head between her knees.

      We can sense how much it disgusts her that she is
      increasingly letting herself go as Elisabeth.

      Sue abruptly grabs the plate and walks out of the living
      room.

151                                                                    151
      INT. GARBAGE - NIGHT

      LOW ANGLE SHOT FROM INSIDE THE TRASH CAN WHICH OPENS
      revealing Sue's face. She throws all the leftovers down - the
      chicken bones and the chicken rain down and cover the camera.

      BLACK

                                                          CUT TO:

152                                                                    152
      INT. SECRET ROOM - NIGHT

      Sue tips the matrix over onto her side.


                                                                    - 93 -
  
                                                               ...sc 152


       As she sticks the long needle into her back to fill seven new
       vials, her eyes focus on details of Elisabeth's body...

       Her gnarled and deformed finger, covered in grease.

       The long scar that snakes up her spinal column.

       She finds this body increasingly ugly.

       Flabby.

       Unattractive and USELESS.

                                                            CUT TO:

153                                                                      153
       EXT. STREET (GLAM & POP) - DAY
       THE GREEN PALM TREES that pass by like KNIVES SKEWERING the
       BLUE sky.

       We follow Sue walking briskly while on the phone.

       The piercing sound of the line Bri-iiiing Bri-iiiing

       Yes?

                                 SUE
                       THIS BALANCE IS NOT WORKING!

       Her gait is agitated and she seems to be looking for
       reassurance in the eyes of others as she passes them by.

                                 SUE (CONT'D)
                       Why do we have to keep it even?! I
                       mean, we clearly don't have the
                       same needs! I barely have the time
                       to enjoy myself while SHE wastes
                       seven days STUFFING HER FACE in
                       front of the TV!

       Remember there is no she and y-

       She hangs up on him. F..! And represses the impulse to bash
       her phone against the pavement.

                                                            CUT TO:

154A                                                                    154A
       INT. TV STUDIO / SUE'S DRESSING ROOM - DAY

       POV FROM INSIDE A LOCKER IN THE DRESSING ROOM. THE LOCKER
       DOOR OPENS - Sue finishes getting into her leotard, appearing
       increasingly pensive and perturbed.




                                                                      - 94 -
   
                                                            ...sc 154B

154B                                                                 154B
       INT. BACKSTAGE HALLWAY - DAY
       We follow her from behind walking towards the studio.

155                                                                    155
       INT. TV STUDIO / PUMP IT UP - DAY

       She opens the door energetically:

                                 SUE
                       Hello everybod...

       NO ONE IS THERE.

       THE SET IS EMPTY. THE LIGHTS ARE OUT.

       A wave of panic sweeps over her face.

       She sees a STAGEHAND putting away the last cables.

                                 SUE (CONT'D)
                       What's happening? Where is
                       everybody?!

                                 STAGEHAND
                       The taping has been cancelled.

                                 SUE
                       What?! Why?

                                     MAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
                       Sue?

       Startled, she jumps and turns towards a FLOOR RUNNER standing
       behind her with a serious look on his face.

                                 FLOOR RUNNER
                       Harvey wants to see you in his
                       office - immediately.

       Sue is increasingly shaken...

                                 SUE
                       I... I'll go change and-

                                 FLOOR RUNNER
                       He said NOW.

156                                                                    156
       INT. HARVEY'S OFFICE - DAY

       Sue arrives in the office.

       Harvey's armchair is turned towards the plate-glass window;
       we can only see the imposing back of his chair.




                                                                 - 95 -
   
                                                      ...sc 156


The three men in suits are there, staring at her. One of them
is sitting on the couch. Another is leaning on the corner of
Harvey's desk. The third stands by the plate-glass window.

Harvey swivels around to face her:

                          HARVEY
                We've discovered your little
                secret.

Dead silence.

                           HARVEY (CONT'D)
                I couldn't believe MY EARS!
                    (staring right into her
                     eyes)
                ELISABETH SPARKLE?!!

                              SUE
                Listen I-

                          HARVEY
                You can't actually be living in ...
                    (weird grin)
                ..ELISABETH SPARKLE'S APARTMENT??!

Sue's face...

                          HARVEY (CONT'D)
                It's too much of a coincidence! I
                sack her and BAM! Here she is again
                trying to stick her foot right back
                in the door!
                    (he chuckles)

An enormous burden is lifted from Sue's shoulders, relieved
that it's "only that..."

                          SUE
                Uh...yes we...we briefly met when
                she was moving out of town... she
                asked me if I was looking for a
                place to rent... which I was so...
                there you have it.

Silence.

                          HARVEY
                Oh she left town?... where did she
                go?

A beat.

                          SUE
                Uh... ... Costa Rica I think.

A long silence.



                                                          - 96 -

                                                      ...sc 156


One of the men in suits.

                          SUIT #1
                It's great for taxes.

Silence.

Harvey raises his eyebrows with a grunt of approval before
slamming his two hands down on his desk.

                          HARVEY
                ANYWAY! That's not why I wanted to
                see you.
                    (suddenly very serious)
                I'm going to get straight to the
                point: we can't keep you on the
                morning show.

Dead silence. Sue can't breathe.

                          SUE
                But WHY?? I've j-

                          HARVEY
                Ratings are through the roof.

A beat. Lost. Sue's emotional roller coaster is palpable.

                          HARVEY (CONT'D)
                We started at 42. We're now at...
                    (he gestures to one of the
                     men)

                              SUIT #2
                216.

                          HARVEY
                That's phe-no-me-nal. We've never
                seen such figures in all the
                network's history! PEOPLE LOVE YOU!
                THEY ADORE YOU!

Sue, suddenly overcome with emotion...

                          HARVEY (CONT'D)
                That's why we've decided we want
                you to host... THE NEW YEAR'S EVE
                SHOW.

A beat.

                          SUE
                ...you mean... The...

                          HARVEY
                ...network's biggest show! 50
                million viewers... LIVE. You can't
                get any higher ...
                          (MORE)

                                                             - 97 -

                                                            ...sc 156
                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                          (a beat with a glassy look
                           in his eye)
                      Well, except if you die... then
                      you'd go...
                          (he gestures towards the
                           ceiling)

      A beat, as if behind his glassy eyes he were suddenly engaged
      in a deep metaphysical reflection... then he abruptly comes
      back to the point:

                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      Anyway, I'm taking a huge gamble on
                      you and these men can tell you I
                      talked you up to the shareholders
                      `til my last drop of saliva,
                      convincing them this is the way to
                      go. It's going to be intense. We
                      have only a few months to pull it
                      off, but I know we can do it.
                          (to Sue)
                      So? What do you say?

      A long beat on Sue.

                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      Are you in?

      Sue's gleaming eyes...

      BLACK

157                                                                   157
      INT. SECRET ROOM - NIGHT
      For a long moment.

      Then a ray of light appears through the gap of a door that
      slowly opens...

      And Sue's head appears in the gap.

      We are inside the secret room looking towards the door.

      A long moment on Sue who looks inside the room with shiny
      eyes...

      We can feel her inner dilemma...

      Then she walks into the secret room and slowly kneels down
      behind Elisabeth's back.

      A beat...AND HER MANICURED HAND clips one of the empty vials
      onto the puncture syringe... AND LIFTS UP THE BANDAGE -
      revealing the slightly swollen puncture site.




                                                                   - 98 -
  
                                                            ...sc 157


                                SUE
                      If you don't open the door when
                      opportunity knocks, you won't get
                      another chance...

      AND SHE SLOWLY PUSHES THE LONG NEEDLE into the puncture
      site...

                                SUE (CONT'D)
                      You of all people know this...

      Elisabeth's pupil slightly flinches while the needle slowly
      drains the liquid.

      BLACK


158                                                                  158
      INT. SECRET ROOM - DAY
      A long silence.

      And the ray of light appears again.

      Sue, in a new outfit, once again appears in the half-opened
      door.

      We can see several empty vials strewn on the floor, next to
      Elisabeth.

      She hesitates before entering stealthily.

                                SUE
                      Just one more. Then I have a week
                      off, and we can switch.

      THE MANICURED HAND lifts up the bandage - the skin has
      visibly grown even more swollen at the puncture site.

      We can tell that Sue feels increasingly uneasy. She
      manipulates the Matrix with growing disgust.

      Jabbing the needle into the swollen skin is a little more
      difficult.

      BLACK

      A long beat...

159                                                                  159
      INT. SECRET ROOM - DAY

      AND THE DOOR OPENS AGAIN...

      and Sue walks into the room in a new outfit...

      She takes off the bandage - there's a little pus oozing from
      the puncture site, which is now infected.


                                                                  - 99 -
  
                                                                ...sc 159


       (there are more and more empty vials strewn across the floor)
       She clips on an empty vial.

       We can tell that she is increasingly terrified by what she
       sees and also feels guilty... but she can't help it.

                                 SUE
                       I've got some amazing news...
                           (kneeling behind her)
                       We are doing the cover of Vogue!

       She fiddles with it, making circular movements to try and dig
       a way through the inflamed flesh on Elisabeth's back.

                                 SUE (CONT'D)
                       It's just one more day, it's not a
                       big deal...

       BLACK

                                                            FADE IN:

160A                                                                   160A
       INT. BATHROOM - DAY
       THE EMPTY, STILL BATHROOM, where we can only see the door to
       the secret room open ajar.

       Nothing moves.

       Then we hear a big breath being taken: AHAAAAAAAAAAAA

       A long silence.

       And a bloodcurdling scream tearing through the secret room:

                                     ELISABETH (O.S.)
                       NOOOOOOO.....

160B                                                                   160B
       INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY
       ...WHICH ECHOES IN THE STILL LIVING ROOM WITH A VIEW ON THE
       SMILING BILLBOARD

                                  ELISABETH VOICE (O.S.)
                       ....NOOOOOOOOOOO

                                                            CUT TO:

161A                                                                   161A
       INT. HALLWAY / BATHROOM - DAY
       HISSSSSSSSSSS THE ROAR OF THE WATER LIKE A BURST OF THUNDER

       THE LONG DARK HALLWAY - at the end of which is the open
       bathroom door - the shower is filled with steam from the hot
       water.


                                                                   - 100 -
   
                                                             ...sc 161B

161B                                                                  161B
       INT. SHOWER - DAY
       THE SHOWER HEAD SPITS OUT its powerful stream of water on...

       ELISABETH. A dazed look in her eyes as she stares at the
       ground.

       REVERSE ANGLE ON THE SHOWER FLOOR where we see the water
       streaming over... ONE OF HER LEGS THAT HAS AGED TERRIBLY.

       Varicose veins crisscross her leg, protruding under the
       parchment-thin wrinkled skin reaching all the way to her
       groin.

       She brushes a lock of hair behind her ear, uncovering a swath
       of atrociously aged skin around her right eye, like a black
       eye made of wrinkles.

       The water falls on her back where the swollen and infected
       red area around the puncture site has grown larger, her spine
       stooped by her vertebrae's twisted alignment.

       Leaning her palm on the wall for support, we discover that
       her entire right hand has aged all the way up to her elbow.

                                 ELISABETH
                       Not a big deal??....THIS IS NOT A
                       BIG DEAL?????!

       The sound of the phone ringing which grows increasingly
       louder as if it was going to FUCKING PIERCE OUR EARDRUMS.

                       Bri-iiing...
       Bri-ing,

162                                                                    162
       INT. KITCHEN - DAY
       THE ATROCIOUSLY OLD FOOT WITH ITS HARDENED YELLOWED NAILS
       paces back and forth.

       Bri-ing Bri-iiing
       On top of the table is the Vogue issue with SUE, ALL SMILES
       ON THE COVER:

                                          THE RISING STAR

       Bri-ing Bri-iiing
       Yes?

       Elisabeth, ready to burst, stuttering in her haste:

                                 ELISABETH
                       SH-SHE D-DID IT AGAIN!!!!


                                                                   - 101 -
   
                                                        ...sc 162


She winces from the violent pain shooting up her back.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                The...the...GROWTH... - cause if
                I'm the matrix what came out of me
                can only be called the GROWTH! THE
                GROWTH didn't respect the balance.
                AGAIN. SHE'S STEALING MORE AND MORE
                TIME FROM ME completely
                disregarding the consequences. She
                is irresponsible! She is totally
                short sighted! Sh-SHHA-SHHA...

She angrily throws the magazine.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                ...SHHHHALLOW AND SUPERFICIAL!!!!!

A beat.

If you don't want extra time you simply have to stop taking
it.

Elisabeth makes a dreadful grimace, closing her eyes,
struggling against her impulse to implode.

ALL DECISIONS ARE YOUR DECISIONS. You're simply making them
from different sides of yourself.

Everything is getting all too Kafkaesque...

Would you like to stop?

Elisabeth is taken aback.

                              ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                ...Stop?

You are the Matrix. Your other side depends on you to survive
but you don't. If you are not satisfied, you can put an end
to the experience whenever you want, and go back to being
just you on your own.

A moment of silence. Then again, like a mantra:

Would you like to stop? To go back to being just you on your
own?

Elisabeth seems lost...wrapping her bathrobe tighter around
herself.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                Will...will everything return to
                what it was before? I mean... as I
                was before?

We feel all of her vulnerability as she waits for the answer.



                                                           - 102 -

                                                     ...sc 162


The line crackles.

What has been transferred won't come back.

We have made that clear already.

But you can stop the experience as of now.

A beat.

Would you like to stop? To go back to being just you on your
own?

Her eyes fall upon her horrifically aged leg... then look
beneath her bathrobe, towards what we imagine must be left of
her breasts...

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                NO!...no no no...I don't want to
                stop...
                    (she pulls the fabric of
                     her bathrobe tighter
                     around her body)
                I can't stop... I can't stay LIKE
                THIS... SHE has to- (She gives
                herself a SMACK!)..."I" have to-
                (SMACK! Another slap!) THE BALANCE
                HAS TO BE RESPECTED!!

A long beat. The line crackles.

So respect it.

A beat.

We see her back droop.

Let us know if you need anything else. We will be happy to
answer any of your requests. We are at your disposal.

The line goes dead.

Elisabeth remains slumped over the table.

We can see her stooped back shaken by little hiccups as she
starts sobbing.

THEN: When you're smiling, when you're smiling...

It's Sue's telephone, the Louis Prima ring tone a glaring
reminder of how tragic things have become.

...the whole woooooorld smiles with y-

Her twisted finger pushes a button to send the call direct to
voice mail.




                                                            - 103 -

                                                                ...sc 162


      She stands with difficulty and starts walking away...
      ping!... she stops... a beat... she turns around and sees the
      voice mail notification. She hesitates... and can't stop
      herself from going back to listen to it.

                                ALAN (V.O.)
                      SUE!! Holy fuck?! Are you sitting
                      down? Please go sit!

      She lets herself fall back down into the chair like a sack of
      potatoes.

                                ALAN (V.O.)
                      Are you ready to hear this? Ok this
                      is huge. TOM GRANT wants you in his
                      next movie! YES, YOU HEARD ME
                      RIGHT. TOM FUCKING GRANT. He saw
                      you on the Vogue cover this morning
                      and he's DYING to meet you. CALL ME
                      AS SOON AS YOU GET BACK.

      A beat.

      And then suddenly she gives herself an enormous slap: SMACK!

                                    ELISABETH
                      STOP IT!

      SLAP! Another.

                                ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                      YOU HAVE TO STOP IT!

      SLAP!

      SMACK!

      SLAP!

      SHE HITS HER HEAD REPEATEDLY WITH HER FISTS AS THOUGH THAT
      WOULD MAKE THE MESSAGE ENTER HER BRAIN ONCE AND FOR ALL.

                                ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                      STOP IT STOP IT STOP IT...

      The small note "it changed my life," hanging on the wall...

      BLACK

                                                            FADE IN:

163                                                                    163
      INT. LIVING ROOM - EVENING
      The silent apartment plunged in darkness.

      IN THE LIVING ROOM we see Elisabeth from behind huddled up in
      the big armchair.


                                                                   - 104 -
  
                                                             ...sc 163


The TV is on, but she isn't even watching.

She sits silently for a long while, staring into space.

Then something changes in her expression... as though she has
seen something that caught her attention in the bookcase
facing her.

She tries to get up but her aged leg won't straighten... she
is stuck in the big armchair.

A beat. She looks at her severely deformed knee.

Stiff and swollen with arthritis.

She remains in place, staring... tries again to unbend her
leg... we see the intense effort this requires... but her
knee, ravaged by arthritis is blocked in a bent position.

Elisabeth's expression is increasingly harsh as she focuses
on trying to unbend her knee...

She grabs her leg with both hands, trying to force it
straight...but it won't budge...

She pushes harder, harder... She grits her teeth... her
expression betrays increasing agony as she relentlessly tries
to force the knee to unbend...

CRAAAACK - Her kneecap dislocates finally unbending AAAAHHHHH-
a scream of victory and pain.

She does as best she can to push her deformed body to get up -
her dowager's hump is larger and painful, and there's a stain
made by the oozing pus on her bathrobe in the area of the
puncture site.

She limps all the way to the bookcase, leaning on the shelves
to catch her breath, as though she had just run a marathon.

Then her arthritic hand grabs something forgotten that is
stuck between two books: Harvey's departure gift.

She looks at it. Harvey's chubby smiling face appears
superimposed on the wrapping paper.

                          HARVEY
                To keep you busy. It's French. My
                wife swears by it!

The gnarled fingers tear off the wrapping paper revealing a
thick book of recipes:

                          FRENCH CUISINE from A to Z

                26 recipes from the greatest French chefs!




                                                                - 105 -
THE SUBSTANCE    -   May 3rd 2022
                                                                   ...sc 163


      On the cover is a very hefty looking CHEF WITH RED CHEEKS and
      a great big smile.

      She has to get very, very close to the page to see it as her
      vision has gotten much worse. She leafs through the pages of
      recipes accompanied by full-size pictures of the dishes:

                                          AUBRAC ALIGOT

                           BRISSAC BLOOD SAUSAGE WITH APPLES

                                         CAEN STYLE TRIPES

               CHRISTMAS BRESSE POULTRY STUFFED WITH FOIE GRAS

                                                               FADE IN:

164                                                                       164
      INT. LIVING ROOM / TALK SHOW STUDIO - NIGHT
      Dazzling white. As the camera pulls back, the white very
      slowly becomes large white squares... pulling back further,
      the white squares form a big toothy smile... we pull back
      even more to reveal that the smile is Sue's pearly-white
      smile on a pixelated TV screen facing a zestful TV HOST:

                                TV HOST
                      ...that's right!...You popped up on
                      our screens out of nowhere like a
                      tornado. I think no one was really
                      prepared for this whirlwind...

      SPLOTCH SPLOTCH SPLOTCH SPLOTCH

165                                                                       165
      INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

      CHEESE BUBBLING IN A SAUCEPAN

      Elisabeth's DECREPIT FOOT shuffling back and forth across the
      kitchen floor.

                                TV HOST
                      It all started with the morning
                      show... rumor has it that you are
                      up for Tom Grant's next movie...
                      and ...just a minute... I'm just
                      being told that you have been
                      chosen to host the NEW YEAR'S EVE
                      SHOW!! Can you confirm this?

                                SUE
                      Yes that's right.

      The audience applauds.




                                                                      - 106 -
  
                                                           ...sc 165


                          ELISABETH'S VOICE   (O.S.)
                    (mimicking Sue's nasal
                     voice)
                "Yes that's right"

EXTREME CLOSE UP on the thick, greasy melted cheese that is
slowly poured onto a plate like molten lava...

Elisabeth is pouring the aligot to look exactly like the
photo in the recipe book.

She is in the kitchen surrounded by piles of dirty dishes,
the cook book open on the stained and greasy counter, as she
navigates between different recipes that she is cooking at
the same time.

                          TV HOST
                WOW WOW WOW THIS IS BIG NEWS! I
                can't wait to find out what you are
                cooking up for us!

ELISABETH TURNS A PAGE SHLACK!

                       BRISSAC BLOOD SAUSAGE WITH APPLES

(he encourages the audience to applaud. Sue laughs,
flattered)

Elisabeth leans over the book getting as close as possible to
read the recipe.

                          TV HOST (CONT'D)
                So tell us a little about yourself.
                Where are you from? How did you get
                discovered?! I want - WE want to
                know EVERYTHING!!

HISSSSSSS TWO BLOOD SAUSAGES LAND IN A SAUTE PAN making the
hot oil jump and sizzle.

                          SUE
                    (playing demurely with the
                     audience)
                Oh, there's not very much to tell,
                really... I'm just a girl from a
                very small town in... Indiana.

As the oil gets hotter it pops and splatters in the pan.

Elisabeth wipes her brow on her forearm.

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                I'm sure you've never heard of
                it... in fact, it's not even a
                town... I'm not really sure you
                could even call it a village... A
                farm perhaps? (She laughs with the
                public).


                                                              - 107 -

                                                       ...sc 165


Elisabeth mocks Sue's shrill laugh while she deglazes the pan
in a CLOUD OF SMOKE HISSSSSSSS

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                ...But for as long as I can
                remember, it has always been my
                dream to be on screen...

                              ELISABETH
                MY dream!
                          SUE
                ...as a child I used to put on
                shows for my family...

THE GNARLED FINGERS TURN A NEW PAGE SHLACK!

         CHRISTMAS BRESSE POULTRY STUFFED WITH FOIE GRAS

Elisabeth opens the refrigerator door and grabs a large
uncooked turkey.

INSERT - the GNARLED FINGER follows across each line of
directions in the cook book: eviscerate the turkey.

                          TV HOST
                How sweet... So everyone is aware
                that you replaced Elisabeth Sparkle
                and no doubt about it you stepped
                in, turned up the volume and ROCKED
                THEIR WORLD! (the audience cheers)
                Were you a fan of her show?

Elisabeth puts the chicken on the table and pauses    - she's
attentively listening to Sue's answer.

                          SUE
                Well, I can't really say I actually
                watched her show because... well
                you do know that we're not exactly
                the same generation... (everybody
                laughs)

Utter disbelief on Elisabeth's face. HER FINGERS TENSE AND
FREEZE ON THE TURKEY SKIN.

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                ...And you have to admit that it
                was a bit old fashioned - Jurassic
                Fitness really - it needed a
                change...

ELISABETH VIOLENTLY SHOVES HER HAND INSIDE THE TURKEY'S
INNARDS IN RETALIATION.

                          ELISABETH
                "Jurassic fitness"...


                                                           - 108 -

                                                      ...sc 165


She pokes around the turkey's cavity...

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                I'll fucking show you Jurassic
                fitness.

Pushing and pulling, poking and thrusting, she finally pulls
out the giblets - SPLOTCH!

                          SUE
                ...But my mother was a huge fan of
                hers. Every morning, rain or shine,
                "Sparkle your life" was on TV.

She breaks a series of eggs on the rim of a big glass bowl.
They land at the bottom : all of these egg yolks side by side
as though they had multiplied themselves... making for a
strange reminiscence...

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                So in a way I grew up with her -
                whether I liked it or not!
                (laughter from the audience)
                I guess that's why I can say we
                have some sort of connection.

                          ELISABETH
                "Some sort of connection?!"

ZZZZZZZZ She grabs the electric beater as though it were a
chain saw.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                Without ME YOU DON'T EVEN EXIST!!!

ZZZZZZZZZZZZZ Elisabeth savagely destroys the egg yolks
which splatter her bathrobe.

                          TV HOST
                Goodness yes, and WHAT A CHANGE!

Elisabeth shuts off the beater and catches her breath.

                          TV HOST (CONT'D)
                ...And now for our final question,
                the one we ask each and every one
                of our guests...Would you share one
                of your little beauty secrets with
                us?

All of a sudden, Elisabeth darts in a hurried limp over to
the TV, placing herself right in front of it.

                          TV HOST (CONT'D)
                One little trick of yours that
                helps you look so incredibly
                stunning! I mean just look at you!



                                                          - 109 -

                                                            ...sc 165


      ELISABETH FACES THE SCREEN as if the TV Host was speaking
      directly to her, in her dirty grease and egg yolk-stained
      bathrobe. On the talk show, Sue pauses before answering him:

                                SUE
                      Oh... let me think...

      Elisabeth points an accusatory finger towards Sue like a
      preacher in a trance.

                                    ELISABETH
                      SAY IT!

                                TV HOST
                          (as an aside)
                      We won't tell anyone... (laughter
                      from the audience)

                                ELISABETH
                      SAY IT!!
                          (facing the tv, opening
                           her arms in a wide
                           exaggerated gesture,
                           waddling back and forth)
                      Go ahead, show them your little
                      secret!

      We see Elisabeth's face grow increasingly somber as she
      listens...

                                SUE
                      I guess it's that I just try... to
                      be myself... to be sincere and
                      grateful for all that I have and to
                      alway-

      SPLAT! AN EGG HAS JUST BEEN THROWN AT THE SCREEN.

      SPLAT! AND NOW A TOMATO!

      THE VISCOUS YELLOW YOKE AND BLOOD RED PULP DRIP DOWN OVER
      SUE'S PEARLY WHITES.

      Elisabeth is looking at the billboard outside, she grabs a
      newspaper, takes out a page and BAM! She slaps the paper on
      the window, right over its wide-smile of a mouth.

166                                                                   166
      INT. HALLWAY /BATHROOM - NIGHT
      THE LONG DARK HALLWAY at the end of which we see the
      bathroom. Elisabeth, wearing Sue's silk bathrobe, paces back
      and forth in front of the mirror, making faces and mocking
      Sue's nasal voice and affected mannerisms. She simpers and
      gestures in an increasingly grotesque caricature:




                                                                  - 110 -
  
                                                              ...sc 166


                                ELISABETH
                      "I just try to be myseeeeelf... to
                      be sinceeeere and graaatefuuuuul
                      for all that I haaaaave..."

      Facing the mirror, pointing her crooked fingers at her
      reflection.

                                ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                      YOU'RE TAKING IT FROM ME!! That's
                      your secret!! YOU'RE TAKING IT ALL
                      FROM ME!!

      SMACK! She gives herself a massive slap.

                                    ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                      STOP IT!

      SMACK! Another

                                    ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                      STOP IT!

      She pummels her head with her fists, growing increasingly
      violent.

                                ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                      YOU HAVE TO STOP IT!!!

                                                           CUT TO:

167                                                                   167
      INT. SHOWER - NIGHT

      HISSSSSSSSSSSSS     - Elisabeth is hunched up in a fetal
      position on the shower floor. THE STREAM OF WATER IS LIKE A
      MACHINE GUN pelting her deformed back. Her vertebrae are
      increasingly prominent, like a dinosaur.

                                 ELISABETH
                          (pleading, in a whisper,
                            over and over again)
                      Stop it stop it stop it you have
                      to...

                                                           CUT TO:

168                                                                   168
      INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY
                                 SUE (O.S.)
                           (HOWLING)
                      ...CONTROOOOOL YOURSELF!!!
      SUE's harrowing howl which echoes all the way to the over-
      sized living room that we now discover in daylight.



                                                                  - 111 -
  
                                                            ...sc 168


      The picture window has been covered with newspapers to hide
      the billboard outside.

      So has the television.

      Leftovers and poultry carcasses are everywhere, the walls are
      smeared with grease and sauces, dirty dishes overflowing in
      the sink... melted cheese on the floor...

      A savage wreckage.

      We see Sue, busy, nervously making her way through the
      different rooms, muttering to herself.

                                SUE (CONT'D)
                      I can't go back inside her...

169                                                                   169
      INT. SECRET ROOM - DAY
      POV FROM INSIDE THE SECRET ROOM - Sue's feet going back and
      forth, carrying a variety of containers, glass jars and empty
      bottles that she gathers in the room.

                                SUE (O.S.)
                      I just can't...

      She looks at Elisabeth's decrepit body stranded on the floor
      in her silk dressing gown.

      The delicate silk material on that horribly old and
      disgusting leg...

                                SUE (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                      She's GROSS...

      She brutally rips the dressing gown off her - Elisabeth's
      head falls back down heavily on the tiled floor: THUD!

                                    SUE (CONT'D)
                      Fat...

      With her foot, she pushes her over onto her side in order to
      reveal the inflamed, swollen, pus-oozing puncture wound.

                                    SUE (CONT'D)
                      Old...

      SHE VIOLENTLY RIPS OFF the bandage from her back.

                                SUE (CONT'D)
                      Disgusting.

      She violently stabs the needle into her back and starts
      draining the fluid...

      Draining...



                                                                  - 112 -
  
                                                                    ...sc 169


      Draining...

      She fills up the glass jars and bottles one after the
      other...

      The camera pulls back, towards the darkness as if the secret
      room was getting bigger, damper and more isolated.

      BLACK


      A LONG MOMENT OF SILENCE

      Then a soft, damp, distorted and cavernous noise that grows
      louder.

      As though marking the passage of time and decay in the dark
      room which seems to have sunk into oblivion...

      Then a faint music, slowly growing louder...

                                                           FADE IN ON

170                                                                           170
      A TV COMMERCIAL FOR THE NEW YEAR'S EVE SHOW      (6 MONTHS LATER)

      Flashy colors and lively voices:

      Tomorrow 9PM don't miss Sue and her crew for an unforgettable
      New Year's Eve Show!!

                                                                CUT TO:

171                                                                           171
      INT. NYE FITTING ROOM - DAY

      The camera pans up A MAGNIFICENT PRINCESS DRESS IN TAFFETA,
      chiffon and rhinestones that sparkles gloriously.

      Sue is in the fitting room.

      Her hair is different, time has passed.

      Her agent (Alan) is there, as well as Harvey and the whole
      gang of suits. Everyone is bubbling with excitement.

      The STYLIST finishes lacing the corset up Sue's back.

                                STYLIST
                      ...And there you go...I just have
                      to take it in a bit here and here,
                      otherwise we are all set for
                      tomorrow.

      Sue's emotion is tangible as she sees her reflection in the
      mirror.




                                                                          - 113 -
  
                                                             ...sc 171


                                HARVEY
                      The dress is WONDERFUL!! IT'S
                      PERFECT! A real princess!

      He takes the stylist to the side in the foreground.

                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      And I was thinking... all the other
                      dancers could have feathers
                      sticking out of their asses.

      Hesitation on the part of the stylist.

                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      Well not "literally" in their
                      asses... You know more like just
                      above the... rump... like a tail...
                      you know. It's New Year's Eve!
                      People want to have fun. They want
                      joy. Happiness. Feathers are
                      joyful. They're fun.

                                STYLIST
                      Otherwise I planned on using lemon-
                      colored short-shorts...

                                HARVEY
                      Feathers are more fun.

      Discussion over. And Harvey starts to rally the troops.

                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      Ok everybody out! Everybody needs
                      to rest up for tomorrow!
                          (to Sue)
                      And especially you! You get your
                      beauty sleep!

172                                                                   172
      INT. LIVING ROOM REDECORATED - EVENING
      We discover the redecorated living room, plunged in darkness.

      Everything is clean, zen and organized.

      On the table is a magnificent bouquet of blossoming red roses
      in a large vase.

      On the white note card placed next to it:

                                         BREAK A LEG!

                                 THEY'RE GOING TO LOVE YOU

      Sue stands in front of the picture window facing a new
      billboard, where she's wearing her princess dress.




                                                                - 114 -
  
                                                                  ...sc 172



                          NEW YEAR'S EVE SHOW
                                         TOMORROW 9PM

      We see the silhouette of A MAN (30) appear from behind in the
      frame and wrap his arms around her.

                                BOYFRIEND
                      You coming to bed?

                                SUE
                          (smiles serenely at him)
                      Yes, I'll be right there.

      The man leaves.

      After a moment, a slight tinnitus starts buzzing in her ears.
      Sue glances one last time at the picture window and the
      bouquet of roses.

173                                                                      173
      INT. CORRIDOR / BATHROOM / SECRET ROOM - NIGHT

      Then she calmly walks towards the bathroom (we can tell that
      this is a well-rehearsed routine), starts taking off her
      makeup as she enters the secret room (where we catch sight of
      hundreds of shriveled up IV bags and empty vials littering
      the floor like a junkie's den).

      After a while she comes out with the syringe in which there
      is only a little thick brownish disgusting-looking fluid...
      what the fuck?!

      With the tinnitus growing increasingly louder, we follow
      her...

174                                                                      174
      INT. CORRIDOR / LIVING ROOM / KITCHEN             - NIGHT

      ...hurrying back down the hallway in the opposite direction,
      frantically searching through the drawers in the living room,
      and finally finding the USB stick with the telephone number
      on it.

      She locks herself in the kitchen so no one can hear her
      calling.

      Bri-ing... Bri-ing...

      Tap tap tap... her foot taps nervously on the floor...

      Bri-ing... Bri-ing...

      Pick up the fucking phone...



                                                                     - 115 -
  
                                                       ...sc 174


Bri-ing... Bri-i...

Yes?

                          SUE
                    (whispering)
                Yes! Oh my god, thanks! This is an
                emergency... there is no more
                stabilizer fluid!

Silence.

                              SUE (CONT'D)
                Hello?!

Silence

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                    (in a screaming whisper)
                ...IT'S FUCKING 503!

Yes.

Ping... a drop of blood on the kitchen tile.

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                I'm telling you this is urgent!!
                There's no more stabilizer fluid!

The phone line crackles.

It means you've reached the end.

A beat.

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                What do you mean..."the end?"

The phone line crackles.

You've drained it all out. It's dry.

A beat.

If you want more, you must let the fluid regenerate.

Ping, ping, ping... the bleeding gets worse.

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                SO JUST TELL ME HOW TO DO IT!!!!
                I NEED TO STABILIZE MYSELF RIGHT
                NOW!!

You simply have to switch.

A beat. Total. Silence.




                                                          - 116 -

                                                            ...sc 174


      Sue freezes. As if someone had just asked her to stick her
      head in a bucket of shit.

                                SUE (CONT'D)
                      Ex-cu-se me?

      The switch reboots the fluid secretion process. So you can
      continue to enjoy the experience.

                                SUE (CONT'D)
                      No no no no, I can't...
                          (disgusted)
                      ..."switch".

      Outside, the billboard:

                                   NEW YEAR'S EVE SHOW
                                         TOMORROW 9PM

                                SUE (CONT'D)
                      AND ESPECIALLY NOT NOW!!

      Ping, ping, ping, the bleeding is even worse, SUE'S POV : THE
      IMAGE GROWS DARKER AND HER EYESIGHT BLURS... She tries to
      regain her balance, reaching for a chair, but she misses and
      falls heavily to the ground.

      There is no other option.

      She tries to get up on all fours while her vision
      increasingly blurs.

                                SUE (CONT'D)
                      No no no... PLEASE I JUST NEED ONE
                      MORE DA-

      The line goes dead.

      On all fours on the kitchen tile, the piercing tinnitus
      drilling through her brain, she no longer has the choice...
      she gathers her last strength to get up but everything spins
      like a loop-the-loop... and she collapses again a bit further
      along in the living room.

      She crawls, dragging herself through the hallway...

175                                                                   175
      INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

      ...all the way to the bathroom, using her last bit of
      strength to hoist herself up, grabbing onto the sink to try
      and reach the switch pipe on the shelf...which she grabs with
      the tip of her fingers... and collapses to the ground making
      all her beauty products crash to the floor in a loud SMASH!!



                                                               - 117 -
  
                                                              ...sc 176

176                                                                   176
      INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT
      IN THE BEDROOM her boyfriend sits up in bed and puts the
      light on.

                                    BOYFRIEND
                      Sue?

                                                        CUT TO:

177                                                                   177
      INT. BATHROOM / SECRET ROOM - NIGHT

      THE EMPTY AND STILL BATHROOM.

      The door to the secret room open ajar.

      A beat. Nothing moves.

      And suddenly

      Rahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh...a hoarse groan from beyond the grave
      echoes out in the secret room.

                                                        CUT TO:

178                                                                   178
      INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

      The man sits on the side of the bed, not sure what he has
      just heard.

                                    BOYFRIEND
                      Babe?

      A beat.

      The hollow echo of a phlegmy cough.

      The man knits his eyebrows, increasingly perplexed...

      He stands and we follow him stepping into the hallway.

                                BOYFRIEND (CONT'D)
                      Are you alright?

                                                        CUT TO:

179                                                                   179
      INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

      POV FLOOR LEVEL ON THE BATHROOM TILES

      A beat... AND A HORRIBLY DECREPIT FOOT WITH NECROSED TOES,
      appears in the foreground, taking a first step on the
      bathroom tiles like the first step on the moon...

                                                        CUT TO:


                                                                  - 118 -
  
                                                              ...sc 180

180                                                                   180
      INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT
      THE MAN'S FEET WALK ALONG THE DEEP PILE CARPET...

                                                           CUT TO:

181                                                                   181
      INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

      A second ravaged foot takes a second step.

      We can feel how difficult it is for her to stand and move
      forward...

                                                           CUT TO:

182                                                                   182
      INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

      THE MAN'S FEET WALKING DOWN THE HALLWAY...

                                BOYFRIEND
                      Stressed out about tomorrow?

      The man is about to reach the door and walk into the bathroo-

      BAM! THE DOOR SHUTS VIOLENTLY RIGHT IN HIS FACE!

      He is bare-assed facing the door.

                                BOYFRIEND (CONT'D)
                      Sue? Is something wrong?
                          (he sees a few drops of
                           blood on the carpet)
                      ...a little cranky because of your
                      lady business?

183                                                                   183
      INT. BATHROOM / CORRIDOR - NIGHT

      ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE DOOR the shot pulls back along a
      decrepit hand pushing against the door with all its
      diminished strength... the camera pulls back further along a
      bony and wizened arm... down a saggy breast that hangs like
      an old washcloth... arriving at a big deformed dowager's
      hump, going down a flabby, wrinkled and MILDEWED buttock,
      pulling out more to discover Elisabeth's entire decrepit
      hunchbacked figure like a Gollum, leaning back on the door
      with all her might.

      TWO NAKED ASSES SEPARATED BY THE BATHROOM DOOR.

                                BOYFRIEND
                      Sue?!
                          (knocking at the door)
                      Sue open the door - it's not funny
                      I need to take a piss!



                                                                  - 119 -
  
                                                               ...sc 183


       Elisabeth, petrified and mortified on the other side.

       She turns her head towards the mirrored cabinet over the
       bathroom sink... it reflects a puny, wizened, dreadfully
       wrinkled old woman...

       SLOW ZOOM IN on her heavily wrinkled face ... thin, stringy
       gray hair with bald spots... it takes her a moment to
       understand that this horrible old wrinkled thing whose eyes
       are reddened from conjunctivitis is...

       HER.

                                 BOYFRIEND (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                           (banging on the door)
                       Sue! Open the door!

       Stark naked, he pounds on the door, louder and louder

       BAM! BAM! BAM!

       VERY SLOW ZOOM IN - WHICH SHAKES ON ELISABETH'S REFLECTION...
       the knocking on the door emphasizes the horrific image she
       sees reflected in the mirror... BAM BAM BAM!
       And suddenly she starts screaming in a hoarse and cavernous
       voice:

                                     ELISABETH
                       GET OUT!! GET THE
                       FUCK OUT OF
                       HERE!!!!
       (an enormous wet cough filled with phlegm)

184A                                                                  184A
       INT. HALLWAY / BATHROOM - NIGHT
       IN THE HALLWAY - the man jumps back, almost toppling over in
       surprise.

       He pauses for a moment.

                                 BOYFRIEND
                       WHAT THE FUCK....
                       Who's this? Who the fuck is this?!

                                  ELISABETH
                            (starts pounding on the
                             door, screaming)
                       LEAVE ME
                       ALONE!!!!!!!!
                                     (MORE)


                                                                  - 120 -
   
                                                           ...sc 184A
                                      ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                       GET OUT OF MY
                       HOME!!!! LEAVE ME
                       THE FUCK
                       ALOOOONE!!!!!!!!
       A horrible noisy phlegmy cough, she spits out mucous again.

                                 BOYFRIEND
                       What the fuck!?

       Finally, totally flipped out, the man rushes into the
       bedroom, grabs his things and takes off without a word,
       SLAMMING the door behind him. BAM!

184B                                                                 184B
       INT. CORRIDOR / LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
       Elisabeth opens the bathroom door and hurries down the
       hallway. She trips and falls like an old bag of bones. Gets
       up and goes into the living room where she rushes to the
       telephone.

       Her gnarled and deformed fingers push on the phone buttons
       with great difficulty.

       The line rings.

       Yes?

       She can't hear anything - and starts speaking super loudly
       like the hearing impaired.

                                      ELISABETH
                       THIS IS 503 I WANT TO
                       STOP!!
       A beat.

       Are you sure? Once you stop you can't go ba...

                                      ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                                   WANT TO
                       I FUCKING


                       STOOOOOOOOP !!!!!!!
       The words are roared as though her guts were about to spill
       out of her mouth.

       A beat.

       We'll deliver.



                                                                 - 121 -
       THE SUBSTANCE    -   May 3rd 2022
                                                             ...sc 184C

184C                                                                  184C
       INT. HALLWAY / LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
       Elisabeth has just pulled the huge framed photo of herself
       into the living room - her blue leotard and happy smile on
       her face, she props it back up against the wall. She looks at
       it for while.

185                                                                    185
       INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

       Daytime now. Elisabeth feverishly finishes getting dressed:
       gloves, thick skin-colored tights, a shawl wrapped like a
       turban around her head, and oversized sunglasses. Bundled up
       in her yellow coat over her bathrobe, she wraps a blanket
       around her neck like a scarf, although outside the sun is
       shining brightly.

       Sue's phone rings on the table. When you're smiling...When y-

       Elisabeth picks up.

                                 ALAN (V.O.)
                       HEY HEY HEY! HOW IS MY STAR TODAY?
                       READY FOR THE BIG NIG...

                                 ELISABETH
                       She's not here. She's gone. This is
                       over.

                                 ALAN (V.O.)
                       What do you mean she's gon...

                                     ELISABETH
                       THIS IS OVER SHE'S NOT COMING
                       BACK!!!!
       BAM! SHE HURLS THE PHONE ACROSS THE ROOM.

186A                                                                  186A
       INT. APARTMENT CORRIDOR - DAY
       At the very moment that she steps into the hallway outside
       her front door, her neighbor's door opens as if half-stalking
       her.

                                 NEIGHBOR
                       How about we g-

                                     ELISABETH
                       FUCK OFF!

186B                                                                  186B
       INT. STAIRWAY - DAY
       She hurtles down the stairs like a lunatic while the neighbor
       immediately scurries back inside his apartment, bolting his
       door shut.


                                                                 - 122 -
   
                                                                 ...sc 187A

187A                                                                     187A
       EXT. STREET (ELISABETH AREA) - DAY
       THE BLINDING LIGHT OUTSIDE. ALL THE EXTERIOR STIMULI ARE LIKE
       A PHYSICAL AGGRESSION.

       WE FOLLOW THE LIMPING YELLOW COAT IN EXTREME CLOSE UP.

187B                                                                     187B
       OMITTED

187C                                                                     187C
       INT. CORRIDOR DEPOSIT - DAY

       The yellow coat goes along the corridor.

187D                                                                     187D
       INT. DEPOSIT / LOBBY - DAY

       CLOSE UP ON THE CARD THAT OPENS THE DEPOSIT BOX. BEEP.


187E                                                                     187E
       OMITTED

188                                                                       188
       INT. APARTMENT ENTRANCE - DAY

       She makes it back home.

       SLAMS THE DOOR SHUT.

       HER GLOVED HAND DOUBLE LOCKING EACH BOLT.

       (she takes off a few layers of clothing - scarf, blanket)

                                                               CUT TO:

189                                                                       189
       INT. SECRET ROOM / BATHROOM - DAY

       ELISABETH'S GLOVED HAND closes around Sue's delicate ankle.
       Elisabeth pulls her out of the secret room.

190A                                                                     190A
       INT. HALLWAY / LIVING ROOM - DAY

       The camera follows Sue's body at floor level as she is
       quickly dragged down the hallway. Her head violently bumps
       against a piece of furniture: BAM!

       Elisabeth drags her into the living room right into the
       picture window's full light.

       She brutally tears apart box 503 with her old, shaking hands
       and takes out: A BIG WHITE NOTECARD which reads:

             We are sorry you didn't appreciate your experience

                                          with The Substance


                                                                     - 123 -
   
                                                                                                                          ...sc 190A


With the note card is a small vial filled with a black liquid
marked "TERMINATION" for an intra-cardiac injection.

She touches the spot where the needle needs to go into Sue's
heart.

Holding the syringe, she lifts up her arms high above her and
is about to...

Are you sure ?

Elisabeth jumps and looks around...

... before realizing that the voice is inside her head...

...Once you stop you can't go back...

Her eyes are more and more focused on Sue's chest going up
and down peacefully...

You will simply remain on your own...
She shakes her head in order to keep her concentration...

But the voice inside her skull rings out even louder...

JUST ON YOUR OWN...
                                               ELISABETH
                       SHUT THE FUCK UP !!!!


JUST ON YOUR OWN...
BAM! Elisabeth jabs the needle right down into Sue's thorax!

Trying not to waver in her determination, she presses
slightly on the plunger to release a notch of the product.

CLOSE-UP ON THE SYRINGE AS IT SLOWLY BUT GRADUALLY EMPTIES.
Sue's heartbeat slows down:

Ba boom...........  ba boom..................
.......................baboom...

AND SUDDENLY ELISABETH'S EYES FREEZE on something facing
her... her eyes mist over... shining with tears... as we
discover what she is looking at:

The note card sitting next to the bouquet of red roses:

                                   "THEY'RE GOING TO LOVE YOU"
Tears well up in her eyes, they escape and roll down her
cheeks... And suddenly Elisabeth wavers... collapses to the
ground next to Sue, bursting into tears, letting all her pain
come out.


                                                                                                                                    - 124 -




                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                I can't...I can't...
                I HATE myself...I need you..
                    (shaking her)
                I need you!!!

She starts to panic, leans in very close to her face to try
and make out any sign of breathing. Nothing.

She starts CPR on Sue.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                    (one two three four...)
                Forgive me I was out of my mind...
                    (one two three four...)
                YOU're the only interesting part of
                me. You're the perfect one.

Blood starts to trickle then run out of Sue's nose.

No no no no...Elisabeth rushes into the bathroom to grab the
switch pipe, hurrying back... she kneels down next to Sue.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                WE HAVE TO GET YOU READY... THIS IS
                OUR BIG NIGHT!

She hooks up the switch pipe. The blood starts circulating...

But nothing happens.

                          ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                C'MON!!! THEY'RE GONNA LOVE YOU!!

She removes the needle from Sue's arm... and BAM! She jabs it
right into Sue's chest for an intra-cardiac injection,
screaming:

                              ELISABETH (CONT'D)
                C'MON!!!
The blood circulates AND SUDDENLY Sue's rib cage heaves in a
spasm; she coughs blood up right on Elisabeth's face.

Taken by surprise, Elisabeth is completely lost.

She takes several steps back, shocked.

Sue's eyes are... OPEN.

So are Elisabeth's.

Completely rattled, Sue doesn't seem to understand what's
going on.

They look at each other for a short moment, both frozen in
disbelief.


                                                            - 125 -

                                                                 ...sc 190A


       Both of them are activated at the same time...

       A long beat on the two women, staring at each other... they
       both seem to be trying to fathom each other's soul...

       Sue sees the "termination" vial on the floor.

       A suspended beat...

190B                                                                      190B
       INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY
       And all of a sudden Sue throws herself at Elisabeth... who
       dodges her in the nick of time and runs away inside the
       apartment. Elisabeth throws something right at Sue's face
       before running away from her again: fuck fuck fuck... she
       stumbles and gets back up again as fast as she can... Sue
       runs right after her.

       Elisabeth grabs a trophy and tries hitting Sue on the head
       with it... but Sue ducks at the last minute, avoiding the
       object and violently disarms Elisabeth.

       Suddenly, Sue runs right at Elisabeth, kneecapping her in the
       plexus, which sends Elisabeth flying right against her huge
       framed poster on the wall.

       The fight between the two of them is UNBELIEVABLY VIOLENT.

       Brutal. Carnal. Like a survival instinct pushed to its
       fullest.

       Creator versus creature...

       Sue runs for Elisabeth and starts to strangle her... throttle
       her...Elisabeth chokes... suffocates...

       With her convulsing free hand, Elisabeth fumbles around,
       desperately searching for something... anything... and grabs
       a... lamp and BAM! She smashes it atop Sue's head.

       An electric shock shoots through Sue who lets go. Elisabeth
       runs into the corridor... Sue runs right after her.
       Everything speeds up.

       Elisabeth rushes...

191                                                                        191
       INT. BATHROOM - DAY

       ...into the bathroom to hide. Her hand trembling as she locks
       the door. Sue tries to kick the door down.

       Elisabeth       searches for a weapon... something to block or
       defend...       anything... she tries to push a large piece of
       furniture       against the door to block it but too late... SUE
       KICKS the       door down... BAM!



                                                                      - 126 -
       THE SUBSTANCE    -   May 3rd 2022
                                                              ...sc 191


      She punches Elisabeth who falls backwards � THUMP! Her head
      bangs violently against the edge of the earthenware sink �
      dizzy, she crashes down brutally to the floor...

      She tries to come back to her senses but Sue is already upon
      her... she grabs her by the hair... picks her up and holds
      her in front of the mirror... they both look at each other's
      reflection for a moment before suddenly...THWACK! Sue smashes
      Elisabeth's face against the mirror... the mirror cracks and
      Elisabeth's eyebrow splits open... She doesn't have the time
      to do or say anything before BAM! She's slammed once again
      against the mirror.

      Elisabeth tries to say something to her:

                               ELISABETH
                      Stop... we are o-

      But BAM! Sue slams her again against the mirror!! Again! And
      again! Soon, Elisabeth's mouth is so messed up that she can
      no longer talk - nothing comprehensible comes out. Sue is in
      a trance, entirely uncontrollable...

      Elisabeth manages to free herself from Sue's grasp...

192                                                                   192
      INT. HALLWAY / LIVING ROOM - DAY
      ...she crawls down the hallway and into the living room.

      Sue catches up with her and gives her a final blow which
      sends Elisabeth flying through the room before landing on the
      glass coffee table which smashes into pieces.

      Lying in the middle of the shards of broken glass, Elisabeth
      tries to wriggle to get up but her body no longer seems to
      respond... Sue now starts kicking her repeatedly, more and
      more furiously, each kick making Elisabeth jerk on the floor
      and cough up blood. SUE CAN NO LONGER CONTROL HERSELF. SHE'S
      KICKING HER MERCILESSLY... until a large pool of blood slowly
      starts to form around her on the floor... and Elisabeth's
      body finally stops moving: an irreversible stasis.

      Sue looks down at the red liquid, as if hypnotized by it. She
      brutally seems to come out of her state of trance...

      And realizes what she's done...


                            EVERYTHING IS YOU
      INSERT

      THE PALM TREE LOSES ITS LEAVES.

      She's just killed the matrix.



                                                                 - 127 -
  
                                                              ...sc 192


      She's just... killed... herself...

193                                                                  193
      INT. INSERT
      SMACK! THE TWO BLU TACK BALLS SLAMMED ONE AGAINST THE OTHER


        YOU CAN'T ESCAPE FROM YOURSELF
194                                                                  194
      EXT MOTORCYCLE IMAGERY

      THE DIRTY GRAINY IMAGE of the MOTORCYCLE FROM THE BEGINNING
      hurtling straight towards the camera... AND VIOLENTLY
      CRASHING INTO IT STRAIGHT ON: the motorcycle smashes into
      pieces and the body of the driver flies into the air like a
      disarticulated puppet from the sheer ferocity of the impact.

195                                                                  195
      INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

      BACK TO THE SCENE INSIDE THE LIVING ROOM

      Sue looks down fixedly at her bloody hands in the foreground
      above a blurry Elisabeth in the middle of a pool of blood in
      the background. (tinnitus starts up in her ear - it gets
      louder and louder right up to the end)

      All of a sudden, we see all the panic, all the VULNERABILITY
      inside her eyes.

      A long beat.

      The phone rings. Like a robot Sue picks up the phone.

                                    SUE
                      Yes?

                                ALAN (V.O.)
                      Sue? Is that you? I tried reaching
                      you earlier, what happened?...

                                SUE
                      Oh nothing.... some practical joker
                      or something...

                                ALAN (V.O.)
                      Oh, you're reassuring me. This is
                      no time for nerves.

      Through the picture window, the large billboard with her
      image smiling brightly right back at her:




                                                                 - 128 -
  
                                                                ...sc 195



                           NEW YEAR'S EVE SHOW
                                          TONIGHT 9PM

                                 ALAN (V.O.)
                       I'll be in the front row to see you
                       shine. THEY'RE GONNA LOVE YOU!

       She hangs up.

195B                                                                   195B
       INT. SALLE DE BAIN - JOUR

       Sue calmly washes her hands. The blood disappears down the
       dark sink hole.

       She looks at her reflection shattered in dozens of pieces
       inside the broken mirror.

196                                                                     196
       INT. TV STUDIO / BACKSTAGE CORRIDOR - DAY

       Sue arrives at the studio where EVERYONE is rushing around in
       preparation for the last rehearsal before the live event.

       She listens to everything attentively, her wide smile upon
       her face, but we can sense she's acutely attuned to
       everything happening inside her, checking for anything that
       could potentially go wrong.

                                                             CUT TO:

197                                                                     197
       INT. NYE FITTING ROOM - DAY

       A MAGNIFICENT DIAMOND NECKLACE that is delicately placed
       around Sue's neck, as she's slipped into a dress in the
       fitting room.

       Everyone drops by the lounge to encourage her.

       As the stylist finishes lacing up the corset of her dress
       from behind, Sue suddenly starts coughing slightly.

       She drinks from a glass of water to try and calm down.

       But after a short moment, she starts coughing again.

       And again. She can't seem to stop coughing.

       She apologizes and leaves for the bathroom.




                                                                   - 129 -
   
                                                             ...sc 198

198                                                                   198
      INT. WINDING CORRIDORS - DAY
      We follow her making her way down the hallway.

      Walking past the soundstage, we see Harvey shouting at a
      technician, pointing to a cable hanging from the ceiling.

                                HARVEY
                      ...you nail it, you GLUE it or you
                      fucking EAT it! But EVERYTHING'S
                      GOTTA BE PERFECT!!

199                                                                   199
      INT. NEW YEAR EVE BATHROOM - DAY

      Sue reaches the restroom and double locks the door.

      After a few seconds, she starts coughing again.

      Once.

      Twice. Ten times.

      She's leaning over the sink; trying to make it stop.

      Cling gling...

      She catches something in the nick of time which has just
      fallen into the sink before it slides down the black hole...

      A silent beat.

      She looks down at her closed fist... which is closed so
      tightly it is almost about to break the cartilage.

      She slowly opens up her fingers...

      And looks down... in the middle of her palm...

      ... at a TOOTH...

      ... Its bloody root...

      She looks down at it...

      And looks back up at the mirror again...

      Slowly... very slowly... she opens up her mouth...

      And discovers... a black hole right in the middle of her
      white teeth...

      She stares for a long moment at her smile in the mirror's
      reflection...

      And as if drawn by an irresistible urge to do so... she
      slowly approaches her fingers towards her other front tooth.



                                                                  - 130 -
  
                                                           ...sc 199


She pulls on it... and the tooth pulls away easily with a
small sticky noise...

Her eyes widen...as she holds this new tooth in between her
fingers...

And as if drawn by another compulsive urge, she touches a
third tooth... which also detaches itself very easily...

Her eyes grow increasingly crazed.

Her toothless smile gets bigger and bigger...

Like the black holes of a harmonica.

A black hole into hell.

She stares down at the three teeth in the palm of her hand.

The enormous and bloody roots... It's as if her hidden dark
side was suddenly coming to light.

Someone knocks at the door.

                          ASSISTANT DIRECTOR - NYE SHOW (O.S.)
                Sue?! Are you there? They need to
                see you on stage to set the lights

She looks down in terror at her teeth in her hand... then her
face in the mirror...

Her eyes increasingly crazed and terrified, she attempts to
articulate in a normal voice:

                          SUE
                I'm coming just a sec!

Blood drips into the sink. She bends over to make sure none
of the blood stains her dress.

                          SUE (CONT'D)
                I'll meet you there!

She tries to calm herself down for a moment... thinks...

And suddenly... an idea sparks to life in her eyes...She
looks at her necklace and seems to have come up with an idea.

She rinses her hands and mouth, to get rid of all traces of
blood.

... keeps her mouth shut tight... closes her fingers around
the three teeth inside her hand...

A long beat on the tightly closed fist...

She takes a deep breath and...



                                                                 - 131 -

                                                            ...sc 199


      ...opens the door.

200                                                                   200
      INT. WINDING CORRIDORS - DAY
      She walks quickly through the corridor with her head slightly
      lowered and her fist closed along her thigh, trying not to be
      noticed by anyone in the busy hallway.

                                HARVEY (O.S.)
                      HEY SUE! SUE!

                      SUE!!!

      After a few moments she has no choice but to stop and turn
      around slowly.

      She finds herself facing... HARVEY.

      Behind him, a SWARM OF WHITE MEN in their 60s and 70s wearing
      suits.

                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      Let me introduce you to the
                      shareholders! They've been dying to
                      meet you!

      Sue stares at them... sweating...

      Next to her thigh, her fist seems as if it's about to
      explode, her fingers clasping down on the teeth so tightly...

      Harvey looks at her, frowning:

                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      Everything ok?

      Sue remains silent for a moment... Has he noticed anything?

      She nods as if to say yes... her neck is drenched in sweat...

      Harvey continues to stare at her for a long moment... until
      his face finally lights up as he erupts:

                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      SO SMILE! THAT'S WHAT WE WANT
                      TONIGHT!

      After a short moment as if frozen... Sue smiles, keeping her
      mouth tightly shut.

                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      PRETTY GIRLS SHOULD ALWAYS SMILE!

      A bunch of half naked, young dancing girls with big feathers
      on their rumps come walking down the corridor, which is
      enough to draw Harvey's attention away from her.



                                                               - 132 -
  
                                                                 ...sc 200


      He follows the movement of the cute, little butts bouncing up
      and down towards the studio and prances about happily behind
      them.

                                HARVEY (CONT'D)
                      OOOH... feathers feathers
                      feathers...

      The shareholders turn and follow Harvey and the dancing rumps
      as well.

      Sue makes the most of this moment to turn away and strides
      towards the dressing room.

      She rushes over to the stylist's desk, searches through her
      work materials and takes out... a small tube of super glue.

      She walks back to the bathroom.

201                                                                        201
      INT. NEW YEAR EVE / BATHROOM - DAY
      Locks the door shut.

      She puts her teeth down on the sink and exhales out deeply,
      opening her mouth and letting a large quantity of blood gush
      out and into the sink in the process...

      She stands feverishly in front of the mirror...

      She takes a tooth in between her two fingers... pours a few
      drops of super glue on the root...

      Shaky, she opens her mouth, lifts up her lip... approaches
      her tooth to the naked gum... and pushes the root of the
      tooth as deeply as she can into the gum... as deep as
      possible... remains still for a few moments...

      Takes her fingers away...

      It sticks.

      Outside, she can hear everyone excitedly looking for her.

                                ASSISTANT DIRECTOR - NYE SHOW (O.S.)
                      Sue? They're waiting for you, we're
                      running late!

      She speeds up and does the same thing for the two other
      teeth...and glues in her smile.

      She rinses her mouth several times until all of the blood
      disappears...

      Smiles broadly in front of the mirror in order to make sure
      we can't see any evidence of the carnage which just
      occurred...



                                                                       - 133 -
  
                                                               ...sc 201


       Takes a deep breath...

202A                                                                  202A
       INT. WINDING CORRIDORS - DAY
       ... and opens the door with a big smile as if nothing
       happened.

       She follows the assistant director into the corridor.

       Everyone she sees throws words of encouragement at her.

                                  ENCOURAGEMENT PERSON #1
                        Break a leg for tonight!

       A spider passes fleetingly in her field of vision.

       ...

       A SPIDER PASSES FLEETINGLY IN HER FIELD OF VISION?

       ...

       ?

       ???

       As she continues to follow the assistant on set, she rubs her
       eyes discretely... Fuck... no it's still there... This shit
       is preventing her from seeing properly (she rubs her eye
       which makes the thing move but part of its legs are still
       there)

       She continues to smile and pretend that everything's ok,
       while a whole portion of her field of vision is darkened. The
       assistant's face seems to disappear into the spider's
       darkness.

       It's just a motionless black shape which remains still in the
       middle of her line of vision, but it's absolutely TERRIFYING.

202B                                                                  202B
       INT. NYE SET - DAY

       She arrives on set. THE DOP and THE CAMERAMAN show her where
       to hit her marks on the floor. They tell her to "look here"
       or "look there" but she can't see anything with this fucking
       spider in the way.

       The cameras film her smile but inside her head, it's a
       complete nightmare...

202C                                                                  202C
       INT. WINDING CORRIDORS - JOUR

       As soon as the fine-tuning is over, Sue runs off the set to
       the corridor...



                                                                  - 134 -
    
                                                            ...sc 203

203                                                                    203
       INT. ELEVATOR - DAY
        ...and slips into the elevator.

       Once inside, she hits the lobby button repeatedly... and the
       more she pushes the button nervously, the more she notices
       that... one of her fingernails is less and less lined up with
       her finger... the door closes, she pulls slightly on the
       fingernail which comes straight off and remains in her
       hand...(same thing for her two other nails)

       She hears a little... splotch!

       She looks down at the floor and sees... an ear...

       A short beat, her eyes frozen, in shock, while staring down
       at the ear on the floor...

       Her ear...

       She's falling apart and into pieces...

       The elevator grinds to a halt. Ding. Second floor.

       As the door moves and starts to open, she barely has time to
       put her dress over the ear to hide it, while swinging her
       hair over her shoulder in order to cover the gaping hole.

                                 MAN ENTERING ELEVATOR
                       Ready for tonight ?

       With the spider in her field of vision, she's unable to make
       out who's talking to her... Her hearing is affected. Sounds
       grow muffled. She can't understand anything of what THE
       PERSON is saying...

       Ding. First floor. The person leaves muttering something
       completely incomprehensible. Ding. The door closes again. She
       hurries to pick up her ear and stuffs it inside her handbag.

       Ding. Ground floor.

204                                                                    204
       OMITTED

205A                                                                  205A
       EXT. STUDIO LOT ALLEY - DAY

       She hurries out of the building...

205B                                                                  205B
       EXT. STREETS (SPIDER DEAMBULATION) - DAY

       ...and starts to head back home, walking as best she can
       through the streets between the pedestrians. The spider and
       macular degeneration have evolved and now hide 80% of her
       vision.



                                                                - 135 -
   
                                                            ...sc 205C

205C                                                                  205C
       INT. STAIRWELL - DAY
       SUE'S POV rushing up the stairs.

206                                                                    206
       INT. APARTMENT / HALLWAY - DAY

       Once back at her apartment...

207A                                                                  207A
       INT. BATHROOM - DAY

       ...she hurries to the bathroom, searching through the closet
       until she finds... the small vial marked ACTIVATOR / matrix -
       where there is a little of the fluorescent yellow fluid left.

       She takes off her dress.

       CLOSE UP ON THE SYRINGE THAT FILLS UP WITH THE LIQUID...

                                 SUE
                           (muttering to herself)
                       I just need a better version of
                       myself...

               Activator / single use / discard after use
       ...FILLS UP...

                                 SUE (CONT'D)
                       Please give me a better version of
                       myself...

               Activator / single use / discard after use
       She tightens the tourniquet around her arm.

       She sticks the needle into her arm.

       Shaking, she injects the contents of the syringe.

       A beat.

       Which goes on.

       Nothing. (Subjective POV: her view in the mirror is still
       blocked by the huge spider in her field of vision)

                                     SUE (CONT'D)
                       C'MON!!!!!

       She closes her eyes and starts muttering a prayer.

                                 SUE (CONT'D)
                       Please please please please...




                                                                   - 136 -
   
                                                             ...sc 207A


       All of a sudden, FLUORESCENT YELLOW FILLS THE SCREEN AND THE
       IMAGE SPLITS (as the camera drops to the floor)

       She starts feeling the abdominal cramps.(she falls to the
       floor)

       Even more violent than the first time. Atrocious.
       Excruciating. She feels like she's dying. She screams.

       Suction noises. The second pupil. The fluorescent tunnel.
       Subliminal images of anarchic cellular division (everything
       is stranger than before).

       BLACK

207B                                                                  207B
       A long silence.

       Then the sound starts to return, only muffled...

       A slightly wheezy breath.

       The image comes back gradually.

       Flickering like the batting of eyelids...

       AT LAST THE SPIDER HAS GONE.

       Thank God...

       Sue turns her head to one side and sees...

       SUE lying on the floor unconscious on the white tiles.

       Her translucent skin and her back split open.

       It worked... Thank you God, thank you...

       She approaches the sink... her vision is half blurry and it's
       difficult for her to focus...

       And she then discovers in the mirror:

       A MONSTROUS VISION... a being with a hybrid face, shapeless
       and hideous... (chaotic cellular growth / body parts placed
       haphazardly and in all the wrong places / teeth stuck in her
       cheeks and in her cleavage)

       The camera slowly tracks back... pulling behind her
       shoulder... and discovering stuck on her back:

       ...AN OUTGROWTH OF ELISABETH'S FACE IN A FROZEN SCREAM, LIKE
       EDWARD MUNCH'S PAINTING.

       We hear the casting director's voice that echoes in her head:




                                                                   - 137 -
   
                                                                ...sc 207A


                                CASTING DIRECTOR (V.O.)
                      Looks like everything sure is in
                      the right place this time...

                                ASSISTANT CASTING DIRECTOR (V.O.)
                      Please state your name/ age /
                      measurements.

                                SUE (V.O.)
                      I'm... I'm...

                                    SUE (V.O.)
                      I'm...

      She vomits a green liquid while at the same time she says:


                MONSTROELISASUE
      She wipes her mouth and turns her head from right to left as
      she looks at herself in the mirror.

      She's strangely calm...

      As if this monstrous vision didn't scare her.

      Almost fascinating her.

      As if it pleased her.

      As if she was TRULY seeing herself for the very first time,
      and finally, accepting herself.

208                                                                     208
      INT. LIVING ROOM - EVENING
      Facing her, through the picture window is the huge billboard:

                                 NEW YEAR'S EVE SHOW
                                         TONIGHT 9PM

      Elisabeth lies dead on the living room floor.

      Sue lies dead on the bathroom floor.

      It's time.

209                                                                     209
      INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

      MonstroElisaSue starts preparing herself and putting on her
      beautiful dress as if everything were completely fine.




                                                                    - 138 -
  
                                                            ...sc 209


       The zipper that she's closing up covers Munch's face on her
       back that forms a hump under the fabric, the dress starts to
       rip all over.

       She slips her foot stumps into her shoes.

       She wants to put her earrings on but... she doesn't have any
       ears anymore.

       She sticks the earrings directly into the sides of her head.

       The few disheveled strands of hair that remain disintegrate
       under the curling iron.

       She has the exact same gestures of vanity as if everything
       were normal which is even more weird and scary given her
       completely monstrous appearance.

210                                                                    210
       INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
       Back to Monstro who is standing, scissors in hand, facing the
       huge frame with the photograph of her back in the days of her
       old show: her blue leotard and dashing smile.

       She gives it a kick to get rid of the last pieces of
       remaining glass and cuts out the face on the poster...

211                                                                    211
       INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

       ...and sticks this paper face (with holes for the eyes) to
       her monstrous face with super glue.

       She then puts lipstick on top of it to emphasize her smile
       while Harvey's voice echoes in her head:

                                 HARVEY (V.O.)
                       Pretty girls should always smile!

212A                                                                  212A
       EXT. NIGHT STREET (GOING TO STUDIO) - NIGHT

       We follow her from behind as she crosses town like a ghostly
       shadow, with her Elisabeth mask like a clown's mask covered
       in red lipstick.

212B                                                                  212B
       EXT. NIGHT STREET (GOING TO STUDIO) - NIGHT

       Still on Monstro's back as she walks.

213A                                                                  213A
       OMITTED




                                                                - 139 -
   
                                                                   ...sc 213B

213B                                                                       213B
       EXT. STUDIO LOT ALLEY / STUDIO DOOR - NIGHT
       We follow her from behind as she arrives in front of the
       studio door.

       She swipes her badge over the screen that unlocks the door
       and finds herself standing face to face with the assistant
       director...

                                 ASSISTANT DIRECTOR - NYE SHOW
                       Ah, at last! We were starting to
                       worry... hurry up, you're up in
                       five!

214A                                                                       214A
       INT. NYE STUDIO / HALLWAY THAT LEADS TO THE SET - NIGHT

       He leads the way in towards the set as if nothing were
       wrong...

       MonstroElisaSue walks past the staff and CREW MEMBERS who
       greet her with a broad smile: "AAAAAH THERE SHE IS! SO
       BEAUTIFUL!", "We love you!", "This is where you belong and
       you'll always belong here!", � We can't do without you � We
       could never do without you!� "You're irreplaceable!"

       She smiles, dazed with her cut out face glued on and her
       teeth stuck all over the place.

       Her eyes are filled with tears, moved by so much love.

       All of a sudden a loud BEEP rings out...

214B                                                                       214B
       EXT. STUDIO LOT ALLEY / STUDIO DOOR       - NIGHT

       ...Bursting this completely fictitious bubble she just
       invented.

       She's still standing in front of the studio door. Her badge
       has just opened the secure door.

       In front of her: the long empty corridor that leads to the
       set...

                                                                 CUT TO:

215                                                                         215
       INT. NEW YEAR EVE STAGE - NIGHT

       ON STAGE - LAST MOMENTS BEFORE GOING ON AIR

       The group of dancers is ready on stage, awaiting her.

       Harvey and the shareholders in front row seats, their eyes
       gleaming with excitement and expectation.




                                                                       - 140 -
   
                                                      ...sc 215


                          HARVEY
                    (proud, to the men)
                You won't be disappointed. She's my
                most beautiful creation. I shaped
                her for success!

Friendly pat on the shoulder in return: Atta boy...

The live countdown starts... 5....4...3...

A figure backlit by the violent stage lights walks onto the
soundstage.

2...

The figure comes to take her place in the middle of the sexy
dancers.

1...

A buzz of whispers rise up... and freeze...

LIGHTS. CAMERA/ON AIR.

LIVE.

Great silence.

Monstroelisasue on the stage in the middle of the dancers.

The sound of a fly buzzing through the room.

The cameramen remain completely still.

Just like the little red dot of light.

Just like the audience.

Just like Harvey and his clique.

The dancers with feathers sticking out of their asses placed
around Monstroelisasue haven't moved an inch; they glance at
each other, not knowing what to do.

Monstroelisasue, her shapeless body, her cut out paper face
with the red lipstick smile drawn on top of it.

The mike lets out a feedback noise.

A silent wave of shudders passes through the room.

MonstroElisaSue tries not to let herself be disconcerted and
talks into the microphone as if everything were normal: (tap
tap on the microphone with her mush finger)




                                                         - 141 -



                          MONSTROELISASUE
                I AM FO HAPPFY TO BE WIFF YOU
                TOFIGHT... I'FE MIFFED YOU FO
                MUFCH...

Her ridiculous half stuck on mask detaches itself...
revealing her monstrous face.

A beat.

Thrrrup - a breast sticks out of the monster's eye socket and
starts swinging at the end of the optic nerve...

...

The shrill, high-pitched scream of a WOMAN (WOMAN#1) suddenly
interrupts this suspended moment...and right then... ALL HELL
breaks loose.

COMPLETE PANIC INSIDE THE ROOM

                          MAN 1
                THE MONSTER!!!

                          MAN 2
                SHOOT THE MONSTER!!!

                          MAN 3
                IT'S A FREAK!!!

A MOTHER hides her DAUGHTER'S eyes (she's wearing the same
mini-dress as Monstro)

The music starts up automatically and        the dancers look at
each other in panic, not knowing what        to do... some start to
take a few steps... while others make        the most of this moment
of confusion to run away, rushing off        the set.

MonstroElisaSue looks around her and starts to panic as
people's screams grow louder and louder in the room.

                          MONSTROELISASUE
                FDON'T BE FCARED... LET ME
                EXPFLAIN...

She tries to stop people from running but they break away
while insulting her:

                              WOMAN #3
                FREAK!

                              MAN#4
                YOU FREAK!




                                                                - 142 -

                                                     ...sc 215


                          MONSTROELISASUE
                IT'F ME...IT'F FTILL ME... I'M FE
                FSAME....(Elisabeth's face,
                embedded in the monster's back is
                speaking at the same time)

SOMEONE pushes past her and makes her fall over violently.

A spotlight turns on and shines down on her. She shades her
face and eyes with her hands to prevent the blinding light
from burning her eyes and dazzling her...

                          ELISABETH
                IT'F ME! FUE! ELIFABEFF!...

                IT'F ME!

                ME !
She gets up and tries to pick up the microphone but her hand
remains glued to it and CRACK detaches itself from her wrist!

Everyone is sprayed with the blood now gushing out of her arm
stump, like a snow canon.

More horrified screams rise up.

She sprays blood in every direction, like a lawn hose, while
spinning around in her princess dress.

SPLASH ON HARVEY!

SPLASH ON THE SHAREHOLDERS!

SPLASH ON THE LITTLE GIRL!

New burst of terrified screams.

                          HARVEY
                    (to the infuriated
                     shareholders who mime
                     slitting their throats to
                     say:"you're done")
                Let me explain!!

                          MONSTROELISASUE
                    (to the public)
                LETF ME EFPLAI-

BAM! SOMEONE KNOCKS HER OVER THE HEAD WITH THE MIC STAND.

MonstroElisaSue's head is half destroyed. A new head - a mix
of Sue and Elisabeth is sticking out of the gaping hole. She
leaves the set to escape the crowd's fury.




                                                            - 143 -

                                                                 ...sc 216

216                                                                      216
       INT. BACKSTAGE CORRIDOR - NIGHT
       She runs through the corridor, the famous corridor, where she
       leaves an immense trail of blood, spraying the walls as she
       passes.

       Complete carnage.

217                                                                      217
       EXT. STUDIO LOT ALLEY - NIGHT

       She runs outside in agony...

218A                                                                    218A
       EXT. NIGHT STREET 1 - NIGHT

       ...wheezing more and more as she rushes into the street in a
       panic.

       She's scared and she wants to be left alone.

       She's trying to get somewhere. We can tell she knows where
       she's heading.

218B                                                                    218B
       EXT. NIGHT STREET 2 - NIGHT

       She runs through the streets as fast as she can.

       Her legs dislocate and collapse underneath her.

       SPLASH ! The billboards get splattered with blood as she
       crumples to the floor.

       She tries to get up. But her body no longer really has a
       human form and she has neither legs nor arms to get up as her
       body dislocates more and more into a bloody magma mass:


        MUSHOFMONSTROELIZASUE
       She continues to drag herself along the sidewalk, desperately
       wanting to get somewhere...

       Her breathing is more and more wheezy, but she doesn't give
       up; she continues to drag her bloody blob along the sidewalk
       giving everything she has to give to keep on going...

                                                              CUT TO:

219                                                                      219
       EXT. WALK OF FAME SIDEWALK - NIGHT AND DAY
       STATIC HIGH ANGLE TOP SHOT on the pink star on top of the
       grey slabs upon which we can read:

                                          ELIZABETH SPARKLE


                                                                    - 144 -
   
                                                     ...sc 219


A long silent beat on the star, which seems like a moment of
peace in comparison to the previous images of carnage.

We then see a piece of flesh crawling into the corner of the
frame trying to drag itself over to the star.

In agony, MushofMonstroElisaSue, puts her last efforts into
heaving what remains of her body onto the middle of the star.

She winds up in the middle of the star, looking up at the sky
which grows more and more dazzling as if spotlights were
shining right down on her.

Gold confetti starts to fall from the sky upon her like a
golden rain shower...

Noises of the street and cars muffled little by little, turn
into the sound of applause and grandiloquent music.

MushofMonstroElisaSue watches the confetti fall down on her
monstrous face like in a dream, as if everything were
disappearing around her and she were alone in the world
inside this golden rain.

We can sense that she is utterly happy, as though she were
thoroughly experiencing her moment of accomplishment and
glory as mush on the sidewalk...

The confetti continues to fall as she dissolves more and
more...


  PUDDLEOFMONSTROELIZASUE
...is overwhelmed by the sound of applause... and dissolves
even more until there's now only a large, bloody stain...

Which looks a lot like the splattered ketchup from the
beginning.

A beat.

We hear a roaring sound, which grows louder and louder... as
day breaks...

And a large street cleaning machine with black rotary brushes
glides across the frame, its soapy mouth wiping clean the
traces of blood on the pavement...

BLACK - over which the music from THE TRASH VERSION OF THE
WORLD IS A VAMPIRE BLARES LOUDLY.



                            THE END







Substance, The
Writers :   Coralie Fargeat
Genres :   Comedy  Horror
User Comments








