




                 TUCKER AND DALE VS EVIL




                      Screenplay by

              Eli Craig & Morgan Jurgenson




                                          April 9th, 2009




EXT. APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS - DAY - 1987

Gliding over the endless green forests of the Appalachian
Mountains, we slowly descend...

SUPER: MEMORIAL DAY, WEST VIRGINIA - 1987

Continuing to descend through the trees... the sound of
frantic breathing rises... someone's running.

CHERYL, a 19 YEAR OLD COLLEGE GIRL looks back, terrified.
Whatever's chasing her is getting closer.

Cheryl trips over a log, lands face down in the mud. She
quickly sits up, looks around. There is no sign of who or
what she's running from.

SNAP! A twig breaks nearby. The Girl flattens on the
ground, looks about. Through the brush she can make out a
blood covered machete. A pair of worn, blood spattered work
boots approach.

Cheryl quietly stands, pressing her back against a tree,
slowly moving around the trunk, out of sight.

She watches as the figure searches about, then turns and
walks off. The girl eases. She turns--

Straight into the eyes of A KILLER HILLBILLY.   He holds the
machete up in the air.

Cheryl SCREAMS as the hillbilly flips the machete over and
smashes the butt of it down--

                                            SMASH CUT TO:

EXT. WEST VIRGINIA - DAY

Bluegrass music and blue sky. Cottonwood seeds float through
the air. It's springtime in the mountains. The hills are
green, the air is clear, and it couldn't be more beautiful.

SUPER:   20 YEARS LATER

A beat up CHEVY TRUCK speeds along a country highway, heading
for the hills. It's loaded down with work tools and an
aluminum boat is tied to the roof.

                     TUCKER (V.O.)
           Did you ever even talk to her?
                                                         2.



                    DALE (V.O.)
          I was gonna. But she moved out
          before I ever got a chance.

INT. TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Behind the wheel is TUCKER McGEE (30), your classic West
Virginian good `ole boy, flannel shirt, an easy laugh, a good
heart, and a dependable truck. He's a natural leader, but
given his intelligence quotient - his only follower is...

DALE DOBSON (28), riding shotgun - the slower of the two.
He's not exactly prince charming either, with disheveled
hair, a goofy laugh, and an awkward smile, but once you get
to know him, you'll see a heart of gold. Right now, he's
clearly in the dumps.

Sitting between them is JANGERS, Dale's mangy dog.

                    TUCKER
          Before you ever got a chance!?
          It's been three years!

                    DALE
          I was waitin' for the right time.

                    TUCKER
          She lived across the goddamn
          street! You passed by her house
          every day. You're hopeless, Dale.
          You know that? Hopeless.

Tucker takes a swig from a can of PABST BLUE RIBBON.

                    DALE
          Well, I ain't like you, Tucker. I
          ain't no good at talkin' to girls.
          I get all nervous, and I always end
          up sayin' somethin' stupid.

                    TUCKER
          You know what you got?   An
          inferiority complex.

                    DALE
              (Not sure what it means)
          No, I don't!

                    TUCKER
          Yeah, you do! That girl probably
          thought as much about you as you
          thought about her.
                    (MORE)
                                                          3.

                    TUCKER (CONT'D)
          She's probably crying her eyes out
          right now wonderin' why you never
          talked to her.

                    DALE
          I doubt that.

                    TUCKER
          See what I mean? I'll tell you
          this, buddy. Life's short and you
          gotta go after what you want,
          `cause it sure as hell ain't just
          gonna fall in your lap.

Tucker takes another gulp of his beer, when A SIREN chirps
out behind them. He jumps, dropping his beer in his lap.

                    TUCKER
          Shit.

He spots a police truck behind them and pulls over.   The beer
rolls down onto the floor, spraying everywhere.

                    DALE
          Here, let me help.

Dale picks up a rag off the floor and leans in, mopping up
the beer. His hand slips, falling into the space between the
door and the driver's seat. His sleeve catches the seat
recline bar.

                    TUCKER
          Knock it off, Dale.

Tucker glances in the side mirror, and sees THE SHERIFF
approaching.

                    TUCKER
          Dale, what are you doing?

                    DALE
          My hand's stuck.

Face down in Tucker's lap, Dale fights with all his might to
free himself. The truck rocks under the force.

Dale finally slips out of his shirt, sitting up quickly just
as the Sheriff reaches the window. He acts as cool as he can
with no shirt on and with how the situation looks.

                    TUCKER
          Howdy officer? Beautiful day,
          ain't it?
                                                           4.



The Sheriff gives the two of them a hard cold stare.

                    SHERIFF
          License please.

Tucker digs a crumpled paper from the console. He irons out
the wrinkles by rubbing it against his chest, then proudly
hands it to the Sheriff, who eyes it skeptically.

                    TUCKER
          Lost my wallet a couple weeks ago.
          New one's in the mail.

                    SHERIFF
          Where you two headed?

                    TUCKER
              (proud)
          Funny you should ask, `cause we
          just got ourselves a vacation home
          up by Morris Lake. Sank every
          penny I had into it. Me and Dale
          here are gonna fix up the place,
          maybe do some fishin'.
              (leans in, hushed)
          He's kind of been striking out with
          the ladies. So I figured some
          serious man time would do him good.

The Sheriff's eyes shift to Dale, still shirtless. Dale
smiles. Then he looks back at Tucker, his eyes narrowing.

                     SHERIFF
          There ain't no fish in them
          mountains.

                    TUCKER
          Well that's why we brought the
          boat. Figured we'd try the lake.

Tucker laughs. Dale joins in.     They immediately stop as the
Sheriff takes an ominous tone.

                    SHERIFF
              (ominously leans in)
          There ain't nothin' up there but
          pain and sufferin' on a scale you
          can't even imagine.

Tucker and Dale glance at each other, then look back at him.

                    TUCKER
          Oh... Okay.
                                                         5.



The Sheriff relaxes and scribbles on his ticket pad, hands
the ticket to Tucker.

                    SHERIFF
          I pulled you over because you have
          a broken turn signal. See that you
          get it fixed.

                      TUCKER
          Yes, sir.    And thanks for the tip.

The Sheriff walks back to his Police Truck, and spins a U-
Turn. Tucker waves.

                    DALE
          Man, that was tense.

                    TUCKER
          Poor guy's jealous. Probably can't
          afford a place of his own.

Dale reaches into the back and grabs two fresh beers.

                    DALE
          Here's to the good life.

                    TUCKER
          To the good life.

They toast.

Tucker turns on his broken turn signal, and pulls out... A
HORN BLOWS... BRAKES SQUEAL...

                      DALE
          Look out!

A BLACK SUBURBAN swerves around them, almost losing control,
before recovering.

INT. SUBURBAN - DAY

NINE COLLEGE KIDS are crammed inside the Suburban. Polo
shirts, fresh hair cuts, good looks. These kids are a J-CREW
catalogue come to life.

CHAD (22), the kind of guy that joins a fraternity because
hazing is cool, rides shotgun. He's overly handsome, except
for his slightly large front teeth.

                    CHAD
          ...Assholes!
                                                         6.



CHUCK (20), the overweight nerd who doesn't seem to belong,
slows way down as he grips the steering wheel tight.

                    CHUCK
          Holy crap, that was close.

Chad looks out the window as Tucker and Dale speed past them.
The college kids and the hillbillies exchange a long,
disturbing stare with each other.

CHLOE (19), blonde, beautiful, panophobic (afraid of
everything), trembles as she lights a cigarette.

                    CHLOE
          Did you see the way those guys
          looked at us?

                    CHAD
          We're in hillbilly country now
          boys! Squeal like a pig!

Chad reaches over and twists Chuck's nipple.

                     CHUCK
          Ouch!   Stop.

ALLISON (20), wears a baseball cap and a tank top. She's
clearly the kind of girl that could care less about the way
she looks, but she's all the more stunning because of it.

                    ALLISON
          Chad, just `cause they're not Sigma
          Chi doesn't mean they're freaks.

                    CHAD
          Yes, it does. You're either Sigma
          Chi or you're a freak.

JASON (21) African-American jock, high fives Chad from the
back seat.

                    JASON
          Yeah, Chadster!

                    TOGETHER
          Sigma Sigma Chi Chi Chi, Sigma
          Sigma Chi Chi Chi.

Chuck mouths the words, trying to fit in, but he's off
rhythm. Allison just rolls her eyes.
                                                           7.



                    ALLISON
              (sotto)
          Great. I'm in a truck full of
          morons.

                    MITCH
          No. If we were morons, we wouldn't
          have thought to bring this.

MITCH (20), the pseudo-intellectual stoner, lights up a HUGE
JOINT.

                    ALLISON
          Okay, I stand corrected.    You're a
          genius.

                       MITCH
          Thank you.

TODD (20), skate poser, takes the joint from Mitch and
adjusts his hat so it's perfectly crooked.

                    TODD
          How far are we going anyway?

                    CHAD
          We go until we get there.

MIKE (20), blonde and athletic, calls out from the back.

                    MIKE
          The only question is where is
          there?

                    CHLOE
          Yeah, I need to pee.

                    CHAD
          You'll have to hold it.

                    ALLISON
          We passed a store a few miles ago.

                    JASON
          Screw that, piss in this bottle.

                       CHLOE
          Fuck you.

                    CHUCK
          I kinda gotta go pee now too.   Can
          we go back?
                                                            8.



                    CHAD
          Sorry, ladies. There's no
          stopping, there's no going back.
          Not for anything.

NAOMI (19) African-American, gorgeous, smart-ass, yells out
from the back.

                      NAOMI
          Hey guys!    GUYS!!!

The intensity of Naomi's voice stops everyone.   Her lips
tremble with fear, as she realizes...

                    NAOMI
          We're out of beer.

The kids all SCREAM as the Suburban hits the brakes, slides
to a stop and turns around.

EXT. THE LAST CHANCE STORE - DAY

The last stop before entering Appalachian country, this store
sells anything and everything.

The Suburban backtracks down the road, parks. Tucker's truck
is parked off to the side. The college kids pile out.

A HILLBILLY KID stares at the college kids as he works the
hand pump on an old WATER PUMP. The pump SQUEAKS OMINOUSLY.

Allison makes eye contact with the kid. The kid smiles, his
teeth are all BLACK AND ROTTED. Allison tries to hide her
disgust as she steps into the store.

INT. THE LAST CHANCE STORE - CONTINUOUS

The store's CLERK is at the counter checking out Tucker's
rental tools.

                    CLERK
          Now, you're sure you got
          everything? Once you're out there
          you're a long way away from--

The bells on the door JINGLE as Allison and Chad enter.     The
Clerk stops mid-sentence and stares at them.

The two of them glance around the store: Animal heads mounted
on the wall, chainsaws, knives, ropes, along with a couple
aisles of canned food and camping supplies.
                                                             9.



                    CLERK
          Can I help you with somethin'?

                    CHAD
              (a little freaked out)
          Uh... where's your beer?

                    CLERK
          Beer's in the back.

Chad continues to the beer cooler in the back.   The Clerk
looks to Tucker over his glasses.

                     CLERK
          You see the way them kids
          looked...?

Tucker shrugs.

                    TUCKER
          Read the list back to me just to be
          sure.

                    CLERK
          Alrighty. We got 3/4 inch nails, a
          hack-saw, bailing hooks, machete,
          brush clearing scythe,
          woodchipper...


ALLISON'S POV

The store takes on a more ominous appearance. She glances at
the hunting trophies on the walls. The floorboards creak.

Allison walks along the aisle, looking at the items on the
shelf. She sees a can of bug spray--

                      ALLISON
          Hey guys?    Do we have enough--

She turns around, but there's no one there.

She grabs the can. As she pulls it away, she notices a pair
of eyes peering at her through the items on the shelf.

They're the bloodshot, slightly demented eyes of Dale.

Dale quickly picks up a jar of PICKLED EGGS and pretends to
inspect them.

Allison moves on, but spots the hillbilly watching her again.
Chloe grabs Allison's arm and she jumps.
                                                        10.



                     CHLOE
          It's just me.
              (looks at Dale)
          Let's get out of here.    This place
          is creepy.

Allison glances back, as Dale watches her leave.

                       TUCKER
          Hey, Dale?     We need anything else?

Lost in a daze, Dale walks to him with the PICKLED EGG JAR.

EXT. LAST CHANCE STORE - DAY

Dale stuffs his hand into the pickled egg jar, pulls out an
egg, and takes a bite. Tucker loads their tools into the
truck as Jangers the dog sits in the cab, watching them.

Across the parking lot, the college kids load up their beer
cooler. Dale watches them.

                    DALE
          Damn, Tucker. You ever seen
          anything like that?

                    TUCKER
              (glancing over)
          Nothin' so special about them.
          Just your average college girls.

Allison bends to pour the ice into the cooler.

                    DALE
          Ain't nothin' average `bout that.

                    TUCKER
          You know somethin', Dale? She's
          just human. You should go over
          there and talk to her.

                    DALE
          Talk to her!? What the hell would
          I say?

                    TUCKER
          Heck, tell her you got a vacation
          home, that oughtta impress her.

                    DALE
          Are you out of your mind!?    Those
          are college girls.
                    (MORE)
                                                        11.

                    DALE (CONT'D)
          They probably grew up in vacation
          homes, while guys like me fixed
          their toilets.

                    TUCKER
          You gotta believe in yourself,
          Dale. Girls can sniff out fear.
              (rubbing Dale's shoulders)
          Come on, you're a good lookin' guy,
          more or less, and you got a damn
          good heart. Now get over there and
          talk to her. What's the worst that
          could happen?

Dale looks at Allison, nervously as he lifts the last piece
of gear, a brush clearing SCYTHE.

                    DALE
          You know somethin', you're right.
          I'm gonna do it!

                    TUCKER
          That's my boy. Now, whatever you
          say just smile and laugh
          afterwards. It shows confidence.

He spruces up Dale's plaid collar and sends him off.

COLLEGE KIDS POV

Dale approaches, absentmindedly using the Scythe as a walking
stick. He walks up to them, stops, and has a panic attack.

His lips quiver. His whole body seems to be shaking. He
tries to form words, but they aren't coming out. Finally...

                    DALE
          You girls... goin' campin'?

He smiles and laughs, making him look even more demented.
The girls are terrified. Chad jumps in front of them.

                    CHAD
          We don't want any trouble, okay,
          man?

Chad spins his hands in some kind of ju-jitsu move.

                    CHAD
          Just back off!

The college kids quickly climb in the Suburban and it peels
out, leaving Dale in the dust.
                                                            12.


He turns and looks back at Tucker. The blade of the scythe
hangs over his head, making him look like the grim reaper.

                    DALE
          I told you, Tucker.      I'm a zero
          with the ladies.

Tucker shakes his head.      Even Jangers seems disappointed.

EXT. BACKWOODS ROAD - DAY

Tucker's truck drives up a rugged dirt road, towing the
rented woodchipper. The forest grows thicker around them.

EXT. BACKWOODS CABIN - DAY

The weighted-down truck emerges from the dense forest and
Tucker's property comes into view. It's overgrown with
thornbushes, dying trees, and that's not the worst part...

THE CABIN looks like something straight out of a horror film.
The paint has entirely worn away, much of the wood has rotted
out, and the front door is boarded up with a KEEP OUT! sign.

Tucker and Dale slide out of the truck, awe-struck.

                      DALE
          Oh.   My.   God.

The men are speechless.      Jangers WHINES her concern.

                    DALE
          It's perfect! And they said it was
          a fixer upper?

                    TUCKER
          C'mon, let's have a look inside.

INT. CABIN - MOMENTS LATER

PRYING is heard as the KEEP OUT SIGN is pulled free from the
front door. A splinter of light cuts through the darkness.
Tucker and Dale enter, sweeping away spiderwebs.

A RAT scurries in front of them.

                    TUCKER
          A little dusty is all.

                    DALE
          It's a mansion!
                                                          13.



Tucker sees a long row of animal skulls and bone trinkets
hanging from the ceiling.

                    TUCKER
          Wow. The guy who lived here musta
          been some kinda archeologist.

                    DALE
          Yeah. He musta been one of them
          news junkies too. Check it out.
          He bought newspaper wallpaper.

Dale points at the wall, plastered with old yellowing
newspaper clippings. Tucker walks over takes a look.

SMASH CUT into headlines: MEMORIAL DAY MASSACRE.    ONE
SURVIVOR. DISAPPEARED. RAPED AND TORTURED.

                    TUCKER
          Oh shit, buy three get two free at
          Arby's, no expiration date. Score.

Tucker rips down the newspaper clipping.

                      DALE
          Hey look!

Dale runs across the room, opens the door on a huge steel
incinerator and sticks his head in.

                    DALE
              (his voice echoes)
          ...a pizza oven!

He tries the ignition switch and an unnecessarily large flame
ignites within.

                    DALE
          And it works too!

Tucker takes in the place, proud of his new home.

                    TUCKER
          Fully modernized.

Dale walks over to an old bookshelf and sees a stack of old
dusty BOARD GAMES.

                    TUCKER
          I can't believe I'm standing here
          in my own vacation home... dreams
          really can come true.
                                                       14.



Tucker slaps his hand against a vertical support beam. CREAK-
SWOOSH! A loose rafter beam swoops down at Tucker. He
stands wide-eyed as the nail spiked board swings at his head.

Dale tackles Tucker, pulling him to the ground. The spiked
beam comes to a rest right where Tucker's head was.

                    TUCKER
          I guess we should fix that.

                       DALE
          Good idea.

                    TUCKER
          You wanna get off me now?

                       DALE
          Oh, right.

EXT. COLLEGE KIDS CAMPSITE - EVENING

SLO-MO: A HATCHET FLIES THROUGH THE AIR... hits a tree trunk
and bounces off. Chad reaches into his pant leg, quickly
pulls out a knife and flings it. THUNK! It connects.

                       CHAD
          Yes!

The rest of the college kids are sitting around a CAMPFIRE
smoking pot. Allison sits next to Naomi as she watches Chad.

                    ALLISON
          What's his deal?

                     NAOMI
          Chad?   He's always been like that.

                       ALLISON
          Like what?

                     NAOMI
          Like he's getting ready for...
          something.

Allison stares at Chad.

                    CHUCK
          Hey, you guys want to hear a scary
          story?

Everyone turns to Chuck.
                                                        15.



                    CHUCK
          Okay. This is totally a true
          story. There were a pair of
          teenagers hooking up at lover's
          point. Then they hear a radio
          alert about murderer on the loose
          with a hook for a hand.

                    JASON
          Lame!

                    MITCH
          Man, that story's so old.

                    CHUCK
          No... it happened to my cousins.

The kids pelt Chuck with empty beer cans. Chad walks over,
grabs the joint out of Todd's hands, and takes a hit.

                     CHAD
              (talking & holding breath)
          You guys want to hear a real story.
          A story that happened here at this
          very lake.

He exhales, then chases it with a hit off his asthma inhaler.

                    CHAD
          It happened twenty three years ago
          to the day. The Memorial Day
          Massacre. A group of college kids
          came out here to have a good time.
          But...
              (in a redneck accent)
          They weren't the only ones in these
          here woods.

FLASHBACK - EXT. WOODS - NIGHT - 1987

A HIT 1987 SONG blares from a car stereo as headlights
illuminate a group of dancing college kids. The college kids
wave glowing green light sticks in the air as they dance and
grind with each other.

The car door opens. A LARGE HAND wrapped in gauze presses
eject on the tape deck. The music suddenly cuts off. The
hand slides a different tape into the deck and BLUEGRASS
music booms out.

The kids stop dancing and turn to look. Stepping in front of
the light is an oafish hillbilly in tattered clothes.
                                                         16.



                      COLLEGE KID
          Hey, man?    What the hell are you
          doing?

                    COLLEGE KID #2
          Yeah, put that back on.

One of the freaks holds a 6" circular saw blade. He raises
the blade, scratching his neck with it. Blood trickles down.

                    COLLEGE KID
          No, this is cool. I like this.

The hillbilly unleashes the blade. It spins through the air,
smashing into the college kids skull right between the eyes.
He falls down, dead. A girl SCREAMS.

The college kids scream and scatter in all directions.

A MACHETE swings into the SCREAMING GIRL'S throat, stapling
her to the tree, silencing her. The hillbilly leans in close
to her, putting his finger to his lips. Shhhh!

Cheryl, the girl from the opening, looks at the Hillbilly and
turns to run. The Hillbilly takes off after her...

EXT. COLLEGE KIDS CAMPSITE - NIGHT - END FLASHBACK

The reflection of the fire continues to dance in Chad's eyes.

                    CHAD
          Only one person lived to tell the
          story, the rest just disappeared.
          Their bodies are buried beneath us.

The kids are scared speechless.   Then Mike jumps up.

                      MIKE
          Alright!    Who's up for skinny
          dipping?

EXT. MORRIS LAKE - NIGHT

A full moon rises over the evergreen peaks, reflecting in the
still waters of the lake. Tucker and Dale are in a row boat
near the shore of a cove, drinking, and fishing.

They finish their beers at the same time and reach to the
cooler for a new one... IT'S THE LAST ONE!!

                    DALE
          You go ahead. That's okay.
                                                           17.



                    TUCKER
          See that's why you're never gonna
          get what you want. You never stick
          up for yourself.

Dale reaches for the last beer.    Tucker slaps his hand away.

                    TUCKER
          Don't even think about it.

Tucker cracks open the beer, takes a long gulp, followed by
an equally long BURP! Dale looks at the beer, longingly.

They hear someone splash into the water across the lake,
followed by the SHRIEKS and YELPS of the college kids.

                    DALE
          What's that all about?

They can barely make out one of the girls standing on a rock,
taking her top off before jumping into the water.

                    TUCKER
          Maybe we should go find out.

                    DALE
          Aw, I don't know, Tucker. My guess
          is they'd rather not see us again.

Tucker starts paddling toward them, but Dale fights him by
paddling the other way. The boat just spins in circles.

                    TUCKER
          Will you knock it off?

SPLASHING draws their attention.   A swimmer approaches.

                    TUCKER
          Somebody's comin'.    Go back.

They quietly paddle the boat backward into the tall reeds.
Allison swims about fifteen feet from them, then stops.

                      ALLISON
          Chloe?    Chloe?

She looks around.   Nothing.

                      ALLISON
          Chloe?

Suddenly something yanks Allison underwater.   She SCREAMS
before disappearing beneath the surface.
                                                          18.



                       DALE
          Holy shit.     What was that?

                    TUCKER
          I don't know.

Allison emerges, choking for air.    Chad appears, laughing.

                     ALLISON
          Chad!   You're such an asshole!

                    CHAD
          Come on, that was funny.

                    ALLISON
          No it wasn't.

Chad moves in close.

                    CHAD
          You know, you can drop the act now.

                       ALLISON
          What act?

                    CHAD
          Like you're better than everyone
          else.

                       ALLISON
          I don't--

                    CHAD
          Yeah you do. But that's okay. You
          are better than everyone else...
          You and I, Allie. We're cut from a
          different cloth, you know what I
          mean?

                       ALLISON
          Uh--

                    CHAD
          What I'm saying is - I'm glad we
          have this time to get to know each
          other better.

He leans in and kisses her.

                    ALLISON
          Chad, you're drunk.
                                                          19.



                     CHAD
          So what?   Everybody's drunk.

He leans in to kiss her again, this time more forcefully.

                     ALLISON
          Chad--

                    CHAD
          I love it when you say my name.

                    ALLISON
              (pushing him back)
          Just stop, okay?

                    CHAD
          You know, something?   You need to
          lighten up.

                    ALLISON
          And you need to sleep it off.

                    CHAD
          I invited you here because I
          thought you could use a break after
          finals, maybe have some fun for a
          change. Guess I made a mistake.

He starts swimming towards the group, then turns back.

                    CHAD
          Hey, I'll race you back. First one
          there gets to keep your clothes.

                    ALLISON
              (sotto)
          Great.

Tucker and Dale watch as Allison swims in the other
direction, toward a sloping rock ledge.

                    DALE
              (whispering)
          What a jerk.

Allison climbs up on the rocky ledge, cautious of where she
puts her bare, wet feet.

Dale politely puts his hand over his eyes. He glances
through his fingers and sees Tucker taking in the view.

                     DALE
          Tucker!?
                                                           20.



Allison hears the noise and turns to see two dirt-covered
hillbillies in a boat, staring up at her.

Allison SCREAMS.   Tucker and Dale SCREAM.

ALLISON'S FEET SLIP out from under her and HER HEAD SLAMS
AGAINST A ROCK. She slides unconscious into the water.

                    TUCKER
          Jesus, Dale. What in the hell's
          the matter with you?

                     DALE
          Me?   What did I do?

                    TUCKER
          When a hot little college girl is
          prancing naked in front of you, you
          don't call out my name!

                    DALE
          Well, you were bein' a peepin' tom.

                    TUCKER
          You're hopeless, Dale.    You know
          that? Hopeless.

The two of them turn and notice Allison hasn't surfaced.      A
beat as they look at each other - then...

The two of them jump into action, paddling toward the spot
where she went under. Dale plugs his nose and leaps into the
water like a kid that's just learning to swim.

Tucker watches anxiously from the boat.    There's no sign of
either of them. Then...

Dale resurfaces gasping for air.    Allison is in his arms.

                    DALE
          Help me get her in the boat.

Tucker reaches out to grab Allison.

EXT. MORRIS LAKE - NEAR ROCKS - NIGHT

Chuck and Naomi sprint through the forest, their flashlights
cutting through the darkness.

                       NAOMI
          Over here.     It sounded like
          Allison.
                                                          21.



They emerge from the forest on a small rocky slope. Chuck
shines his light down at the water. What they see will haunt
them for the rest of their lives.

The two hillbillies from the store have captured Allison.
She lies unconscious in the middle of their boat. One of
them hangs over her, kissing her, or worse...

The other hillbilly stands up, waving at them.

                    TUCKER
          Hey, we got your friend!   Hey!

                    CHUCK
              (crying)
          Oh, God. They got Allison!

The two of them turn and run into the woods, screaming.

EXT. TUCKER'S BOAT - CONTINUOUS

Tucker watches as the kids SCREAM and run away.

                    TUCKER
          Hey!  Hey!?
              (to Dale)
          What in the hell's a matter with
          them?

Dale is on his knees giving her CPR. Allison spits up water,
and begins to breathe, but remains unconscious.

                    DALE
          She's hurt real bad, Tucker.
          We gotta get her back to the cabin.

Tucker nods, still confused about the college kids.

EXT. COLLEGE KIDS CAMPSITE - NIGHT

The other college kids are back at the campfire, drinking
beer and laughing, when Chuck bursts out of the woods.

                    CHUCK
              (out of breath)
          The hill... the hillbillies...

Chad has just finished drying off, and pulls on his shirt.

                    CHAD
          What hillbillies?
                                                        22.



                    CHUCK
          The hillbillies from the store...
          They've captured Allison!

Chad grabs his HATCHET and the group runs toward the lake.

EXT. MORRIS LAKE - NIGHT

The full moon reflects off the water and the rising mist.
Chad and the college kids reach the shore just in time to see
Tucker and Dale's boat disappear into the fog.

                       CHAD
          Allie!!!!

Chad falls to his knees as his voice echoes in the darkness.

INT. CABIN - NIGHT

Allison lies under a stack of blankets on a cot, tossing and
turning. Sweating. She awakens and bolts upright.

                       ALLISON
          No!!!

She looks around the cabin. The moonlight casts an eerie
glow across the room. She touches her head and feels the
bandage on it. A MENACING GROWL catches her attention.

Sitting by the foot of her bed, JANGERS the dog devours a
RAT. The dog looks up at her, his face covered in blood and
he bares his fangs... footsteps approach.

Allison looks up. Out of the shadows emerges an oafish ogre
of a man. He steps into the moonlight. It's Dale, with a
devilish grin on his face and STEEL CHAINS in his hands.

                    DALE
          I finally got me a girl of my own.

He tosses the chains at her.

INT. CABIN - MORNING

Allison bolts upright in the cot.

                       ALLISON
          No!

Morning sunlight streams through the cabin and the birds are
singing outside.
                                                        23.


She looks around the room, confused, scared, breathless from
the dream. Sitting at the end of her bed is JANGERS the dog,
playfully licking a chew toy.

She looks around what seems like an evil cabin: Old tools
hanging from the walls, various animal skulls, the
incinerator, and then she sees the newspaper articles...

Still sitting on the cot, she slides over and begins reading
the old yellowing newspaper articles: SIX DEAD, MANY MORE
MISSING. ONE SURVIVOR...

Dale walks around the corner with a breakfast tray in his
hands. He freezes when he sees her awake.

                      DALE
          Oh... hi.

Allison turns in fear. Dale is equally terrified, but his
fear comes from desperately searching for something to say.

Jangers interrupts the moment, climbs on the bed to inspect
Allison, catching her off guard.

                      ALLISON
          Get away.

                     DALE
          That's just Jangers. She looks
          mean, but she's real nice... I made
          you some--

Dale steps toward her.

                      ALLISON
          No!!!

                    DALE
          I'm sorry. I shoulda asked if you
          liked pancakes. I'll make you
          somethin' else.

Dale rushes away with the BREAKFAST TRAY.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

A FLOCK OF CROWS SHRIEK and jump into flight.

                      CHAD
          Allison!?

                    NAOMI
          I don't understand, where do you
          think they took her?
                                                       24.



                    MITCH
          Maybe they took her to the
          hospital.

                    CHAD
          You don't get it do you?      Chuck,
          tell him what you saw.

                    CHUCK
          It was pretty dark, but one of them
          looked like he was... eating her
          face off.

                    CHLOE
          That's totally disgusting.

Naomi tries her cell phone.   There is no signal.

                    NAOMI
          Shit. Hey guys? Not to be too
          clich� but shouldn't we go to the
          police?

                    JASON
          And leave Allison with them?

                    NAOMI
          If they already ate her what
          difference does it make?

                    CHAD
          We don't need the police.     We can
          handle this on our own.

                    CHUCK
          Why don't I go? Yeah, it's my
          Dad's truck, and he told me not to
          let anyone else drive it.
              (off the girls look)
          I'm the only one insured.

                     CHAD
          Fine.   You wanna go?   Go.

                     CHUCK
          Okay.   I'll be back in a jiffy.

Chuck runs off into the forest, happy to be leaving.

                     CHLOE
          That's such bullshit.   Why does he
          get to go?
                                                           25.



Chad shrugs.    Jason calls out to them from a distance.

                    JASON
          Guys! You'd better come take a
          look at this.

The others follow.   As they do, they can make out THE CABIN
through the trees.   It looks like something from a nightmare.

                    NAOMI
          What is this place?

                    MITCH
          It's just a cabin. It doesn't mean
          they're psycho killers.

                    CHLOE
          Oh yeah? Then why don't you go up
          there and talk to them.

                      MITCH
          Alright.    Maybe I will.

Mitch hesitates.   The kids give him a look.

                    MITCH
          I said maybe.

INT. CABIN KITCHEN - DAY

Dale scrapes eggs onto a plate, tenderly aligns bacon next to
it, finishes the breakfast tray with coffee and flowers.

THE MAIN ROOM

Allison tries to get out of bed, recoils with pain and
dizziness. Dale enters with the BREAKFAST TRAY, silently
sets it in front of her.

Allison's confused gaze rises from the eggs, to the fresh
flowers, to Dale's uncomfortable quest for words.

                    DALE
          Please tell me you don't hate eggs.

                    ALLISON
          What am I doing here?

                    DALE
          Oh. You don't remember? Me and
          Tucker... I mean, I and Tucker... I
          mean, Tucker and I... We brung you
          here last night.
                                                         26.



                    ALLISON
          Why?

                    DALE
              (really fast)
          Well, You were out swimmin' with
          your friends, and your boyfriend
          was kind of a jerk, and then he
          swum off, and you swum off, and you
          climbed up on some rocks and you
          slipped an' fell and banged your
          head and fell into the water...
              (pauses, proud)
          ...and I rescued you.

Allison takes this in.   For a moment she seems touched, then-

                    ALLISON
          You were spying on us?!

                   DALE
          No. No. We were just out fishin'.
          I swear. We didn't see... I mean I
          didn't. Tucker mighta...

Allison eyes Dale, suspicious.

                    ALLISON
          What happened to my friends?

                    DALE
          They just ran off... Don't be too
          mad at them. Some people ain't no
          good in a crisis. Anyways, we
          brung you back here, figurin'
          they'd come get ya in the mornin'.

Allison notices the oversized, tattered clothes she's
wearing. They're Dale's old work clothes.

                    DALE
          I didn't have any girl clothes.
          Sorry.

                    ALLISON
          That's okay. I never had much
          fashion sense anyway.

                    DALE
          Me neither.

Allison smirks at the obviousness, Dale nearly passes out
from the minor success.
                                                           27.



                    DALE
          I'm real sorry about the mess.

Dale starts picking up around the cabin, a futile attempt.

                    DALE
          Tucker just bought this place. I'm
          sure it don't look like much to
          such a high class girl, but it's
          sort of a dream for us to have a
          vacation home.

Allison looks around at the decrepid cabin, skeptically.

                    ALLISON
          This is your vacation home?

                    DALE
          Like I said, I'm sure it ain't much
          to a girl like you. Anyway, I'll
          let you get some more rest. I
          didn't mean to bother you.

Dale turns to leave.    Allison calls after him.

                    ALLISON
          Hey, what's your name?

                       DALE
          My name?     Uh... oh yeah, it's Dale.

                    ALLISON
          I'm Allison, but my friends call me
          Allie.

                    DALE
          Well, it's a pleasure to meet you,
          Allie... son. If you need anything
          you just holler, okay?

He turns away again.

                    ALLISON
          Hey Dale? You got anything to do
          around here?

                    DALE
              (thinks)
          You like board games?

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Mitch and Mike do rock-paperscissors.    Mitch loses again.
                                                          28.



                    MITCH
          C'mon four out of seven.

                    MIKE
          No way, dude. You lost.

                   MITCH
          Fine. Jesus, you guys are such
          pussies. Including you, Chad.

                    CHAD
          Shut up, bitch.

EXT. CABIN - DAY

Tucker walks to his pick-up and pulls out a chain saw.
Through the open door of the cabin he sees Dale playing a
board game with Allison. Tucker shakes his head and smiles.

                    TUCKER
          Goddamn Romeo.

He yanks the starter cable on the saw.   It doesn't start...

EXT. CABIN - CONTINUOUS

Mitch walks with trepidation down the rough path to the
cabin. A chain saw ROARS to life in the distance. He
immediately turns and looks back at Chloe who waves him on.

EXT. CABIN - CONTINUOUS

Tucker cuts into a branch with his chain saw. A bee buzzes
around him and he tries to shoo it away with his hand.

ECU: Behind the branch he's cutting A MILLION BEES climb in
and out of their HIVE. Tucker doesn't notice them.

EXT. CABIN - CONTINUOUS

Mitch looks over at an OLD COW SKULL nailed to a post.    A
CROW sits on top of it.

With each step, the crow CAWS ominously. Mitch tries to
trick the bird by pausing, but it CAWS as soon as he steps
again. He starts to hyperventilate but continues forward.

EXT. CABIN - CONTINUOUS

ECU: The chain saw blade cuts through the wood, sawdust
spraying behind it.
                                                           29.



Tucker has a focused look on his face as he works.    The saw
slices through the branch, and into THE BEES NEST!    A hundred
bees immediately swarm around Tucker.

He rears back, yelping and hollering, swinging the chain saw
about in a frantic attempt to fight off the bees.

EXT. CABIN - CONTINUOUS

Mitch hears a wild, piercing SCREAM. He stops, about to turn
back, when he sees the most terrifying sight of his life...

A psychotic hillbilly runs around the corner, flailing his
chain saw over his head and SCREAMING.

                       TUCKER
          AHHHHHH!!!

Mitch turns back to his friends.

                    MITCH
          RUN FOR YOUR LIVES!!!

The college kids scatter into the woods. Mitch turns and
bolts toward the lake, running harder than he's ever run.

Tucker screams in agony as the bees swarm around him,
stinging him as he sprints for the water.

Mitch turns, looks behind him. Tucker's gaining on him,
chain-saw about to rip him to shreds. He SCREAMS...

Then, he looks over, and he can't believe what he sees.
Tucker running alongside him. They are side by side, looking
at each other, both terrified. Then Tucker passes him.

THOOMP!!! Mitch runs headlong into a pointed branch. He
looks down at his chest. A gnarled piece of wood sticks
clear through him.

As the life drains from his body, he watches Tucker toss the
chain saw and dive into the lake.

A bee lands on Mitch's nose. There's a moment of
understanding before he fades away.

INT. CABIN - DAY

Dice roll across the table.     Dale moves his chip forward and
Allison picks up a card.
                                                        30.



                    ALLISON
          Who was the fifth President of the
          United States?

                    DALE
          Oh that's too easy.   James Monroe.

She flips the card over and reads the back.

                    ALLISON
          Right again. God, you're killing
          me.

                    DALE
          Sorry `bout that. I got this weird
          brain. I'm dumb as a stump, but I
          remember everything I ever heard.

                    ALLISON
          That sounds pretty smart to me.

                    DALE
          Trust me, I'm stupid. I hardly
          made it past third grade.

                    ALLISON
          That doesn't mean anything.
          There's a difference between
          education and intellect.

Dale is touched by her kindness, catches himself staring.

                    DALE
          What is it you study in college?

                    ALLISON
          I'm getting a Bachelor's degree in
          Psychology.

                     DALE
          Oh. What kind of work would you do
          with that?

                    ALLISON
          When I graduate? Well... I don't
          know. I have these stupid dreams.

                    DALE
          Dreams aren't stupid.
                                                         31.



                    ALLISON
          Well... I just think so many
          problems in the world happen
          because of a lack of communication,
          you know?

Dale nods in agreement.

                    ALLISON
          I kind of always thought I could be
          a good therapist.

Allison leans back in her chair, resting against the deadly
support beam. It CREAKS!

                     DALE
          DON'T!!!

                    ALLISON
          My parents say the same thing.

Dale grabs Allison and yanks her away from the beam.

                    DALE
          No... I think you can do anything
          you want to do. But that beam's a
          bit rickety.

BAM! The front door flies open and Tucker stumbles in.   His
face is swollen and distorted by the bee stings.

                     DALE
          Tucker?!   What the hell happened to
          you?

                    TUCKER
              (with swollen lips)
          I sawed into a bees nest.

                     DALE
          Why?

                    TUCKER
          I didn't do it on purpose, stupid.
          If you were out there helping me, I
          mighta avoided it.

Dale looks guilty.

                    TUCKER
          We came out here to work, not sit
          around and play board games!
                                                        32.



                    ALLISON
          It was my fault. I suckered him
          into a game.

                    DALE
          That's not true. It's my fault.
          Here, let me get those stingers
          outta your face and then I'll help
          ya with whatever you want.

Tucker looks around Dale to Allison.

                    TUCKER
          I saw one of your friends out in
          the woods. Ouch!
              (Dale pulls stinger out)
          He must be allergic to bees or
          something, `cause he was runnin'
          like a bat outta hell.

                    ALLISON
          I should probably go find them.

                    DALE
          No. You should get some rest.
          We'll go find your friends.

                    ALLISON
          But--

                    DALE
          No buts. You just relax. Tucker
          n' Dale will take care of it.
          Won't we Tucker?

                    TUCKER
          Uh--

                    DALE
          C'mon.

Tucker reluctantly gets up, and follows Dale to the door.

                    ALLISON
          Dale? Be careful okay? My friends
          can be a little... judgemental.

                    DALE
          That's okay. I'll let Tucker do
          the talkin'. He could win over
          just about anyone. He's a people
          person.
                                                           33.



Tucker nods, his face looks horrendous.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Dark red blood drips through the leaves of the tree Mitch is
impaled on. His head is slumped over; he's clearly dead.
The group of college kids stand around him, terrified.

                    MIKE
          They fucking killed him, man.

                    CHAD
          And they left his body here as a
          message.

                    JASON
          Yeah, stay the fuck out of our
          woods.

                    CHLOE
          I can't believe this is happening.

Chloe's hands tremble as she attempts to use her phone again.

                    CHAD
          Will you quit it? Cell phones
          don't work out here.

Chad rips the cell phone out of her hands and throws it.

                    CHLOE
          Thanks a lot, asshole!

                    NAOMI
          We got to get to the road.   Try to
          catch a ride outta here.

                    CHAD
          We don't need a ride outta here.
          Don't you guys get it? This is
          what it's all about. It's us
          against them. Survival of the
          fittest!

Chad throws his HATCHET. It flies through the air and
connects with a tree trunk.

                    CHAD
          YES!

                    CHLOE
          You have a major problem.    You know
          that?
                                                        34.



They hear some voices rise in the distance.

                     TODD
          Quick.   Someone's coming.

The kids scramble and hide.

COLLEGE KIDS POV: Through the foliage they watch as Tucker
and Dale approach. The hillbillies walk right past Mitch's
body without noticing.

                    DALE
          ...Tucker, you woulda been proud of
          me. Smart little college girl, and
          I was beatin' the crap out of her.

                    TUCKER
          Dale, you beat everybody. It's
          probably because there's something
          wrong with your brain.

                    DALE
          I tell you what, when we get back,
          I'll finish her off, and then we'll
          get back to work.

Naomi and Chad share a glance.

                    NAOMI
              (whispering)
          They're gonna kill her.

TUCKER AND DALE'S POV:

Tucker and Dale look out into the bushes.

                       TUCKER
          Hey, look.     Somebody was just here.

Tucker points at Chad's HATCHET wedged into the tree.

                    TUCKER
              (yelling out)
          Hey college kids!! College kids!!!
          Huh, they musta took off.

                    DALE
          Why don't we leave them a note in
          case they come back.

                       TUCKER
          With what?
                                                         35.



Dale looks at the hatchet stuck in the tree.

                    DALE
          This'll work.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

THE NOTE is carved into the side of the tree with the
hatchet. It reads `WE GOT UR FREIND TRY AND GIT ER'. The
hatchet is wedged into the tree as an exclamation mark.

The college kids look at it, eyes wide with fear. They
exchange a nervous look. Chad yanks the hatchet free.

EXT. CABIN - LATER

A PICK AXE swings down into the dirt. Dale is drenched in
sweat as he digs out a six foot long hole in the ground.

Allison walks up behind him. Somehow she's managed to take
ownership of Dale's oversized clothes and looks as gorgeous
as ever.

                      ALLISON
          Dale?    Did you find my friends?

                    DALE
              (re: her appearance)
          Uh, whoa.

                      ALLISON
          What?

                    DALE
          I mean, No. But we left them a
          note. I'm sure they'll come by
          soon.

Allison looks at the six foot long hole in the ground.

                    ALLISON
              (curious)
          What're you doing?

                    DALE
          I'm diggin' a shitter hole. I
          mean, a crapper hole... for the
          outhouse.

                    ALLISON
          Mind if I help?
                                                         36.



                    DALE
          Oh, no. This ain't no kind of work
          for a girl like--

She grabs the pick axe as Dale empties his shovel and takes a
mighty swing into the dirt.

                    ALLISON
          I grew up on a farm.   It was either
          help out or get out.

Allison continues swinging the pick axe.   Dale is frozen,
unable to stop staring at her.

                    ALLISON
          Well, are you gonna help, or are
          you just gonna sit there like a
          lump on a log?

Dale snaps out of his trance and picks up his shovel.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

The college kids crawl along the bushes. Through the
underbrush, they see Allison dressed in Dale's oversized
clothes, swinging a PICK-AXE into the ground. She looks like
his prisoner forced into manual labor.

                    TODD
          That sick fuck. He's making her
          dig her own grave!

                    CHAD
          We don't have much time.
              (to Mike and Todd)
          You guys got your weapons?

Todd's crafted a spear from a branch, sharpened at both ends.

Mike struggles to open the blade on a small Swiss Army knife.
Damn those things! He finally frees the blade, holds it up.

                    MIKE
          Set!

EXT. CABIN - MOMENTS LATER

Dale grabs the pick and helps Allison climb from the hole.

In the bushes, Chad sees what looks like Dale about to
deliver a death blow to Allison. He stands and yells out.
                                                         37.



                     CHAD
          Now!!

Dale notices Chad.

                    DALE
          Oh, good, your friends are here.

Allison sees Todd running full sprint at Dale, spear in hand.

                     ALLISON
          Todd?

Todd SCREAMS like a suicide bomber as he runs at them.

                     ALLISON
          Dale?   Look out!

Allison tackles Dale into the open hole in the ground. As
they land, Allison hits her head on an exposed stone and is
knocked out cold.

As he charges, Todd's foot catches on a rock. He trips and
falls onto his own spear. The sharpened wood is thrust
through his body with a sickening sound.

He topples head first into the hole, landing on top of
Allison and Dale. His eyes bulge and blood runs from his
mouth as he GASPS his dying breath.

                    DALE
          AAAAHHHH!!!

He struggles to get the dead boy off of him.

AT THE WOODCHIPPER

Oblivious to what's happened, Tucker keeps on working.

Mike runs at him, his nerves now turned to pure rage. He
holds up his pocket knife, about to stab Tucker in the back
of the head, when Tucker leans down for another branch.

Mike stumbles, flying over Tucker's back face first into the
woodchipper. Chunks of brain and blood splatter across
Tucker as he stands upright.

                    TUCKER
          AAAAHHHHH!!

Mike's legs twitch involuntarily as his body grinds to
pieces. Tucker grabs hold and tries to pull him free, but
Mike is ground in deeper.
                                                            38.



IN THE BUSHES

COLLEGE GIRLS POV: It looks like Tucker is jamming Mike into
the woodchipper by his legs.

The girls SCREAM as Tucker yanks even harder on the
woodchipper, accidentally turning it toward the bushes.
Blood sprays out of it into the woods, splattering Chloe.

INT. CABIN - DAY

The cabin door flies open.      Dale holds Allison in his arms.

                    DALE
          Come on, Allison?      Say somethin'.

Dale gently lays her down.      Tucker runs in, covered in blood.

                    TUCKER
          Holy mother of God! Them college
          kids are out of their minds! I
          think they're trying to kill
          themselves! We've got to hide all
          the sharp objects around here!

Tucker runs through the cabin, putting away knives.

                    DALE
          I think they're trying to kill her
          too!

The men look at Allison, unconscious, innocent.

                    DALE
          Think about it, Tucker. That's why
          they acted so funny after we saved
          her. `Cause they wanted her dead.

                    TUCKER
          Why the hell would they want her
          dead?

                    DALE
          Maybe she knows something they
          don't want her to know?

                       TUCKER
          Like what?

                    DALE
          I don't know.
                                                           39.



                    TUCKER
          Well you're lucky you don't, `cause
          if you did know they might want you
          dead too.

                     DALE
              (scared)
          Yeah, good point.
              (beat)
          Maybe we should go to the police.

                    TUCKER
          Go to the police!?   And say what?

                    DALE
          Tell `em what happened.

                    TUCKER
          That's a great idea. We'll just
          tell them we were sittin' around
          minding our own business, when some
          kid runs up and dives head first
          into our woodchipper.

                    DALE
          Well, that's what happened.

                    TUCKER
          It don't matter what happened. The
          only thing that matters is what it
          looks like happened. And it don't
          look pretty out there.

Dale turns and looks at the window, dripping with blood.

                    DALE
          Well, then what the hell are we
          gonna do?

Tucker paces.   He looks at Allison and then at Dale.

                    TUCKER
          We gotta clean up the mess.

Dale cringes at the thought.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Chloe's hands tremble as she lights a cigarette.   She's
covered in blood and can't stop crying.
                                                         40.



                    JASON
          You shouldn't smoke so much, Chloe.
          It's not good for you.

                    CHLOE
          Fucking dying isn't good for you
          either, but that doesn't seem to
          stop anybody!

                    NAOMI
          We never should have come out here.
          Who's stupid idea was this?

                     CHLOE
          Chad?

They look at Chad, he's sharpening his hatchet with a stone.

                    CHLOE
          Why did you bring us out here?

                    CHAD
          You guys are all such fucking
          pussies, you know that? I mean a
          few little tiny murders and
          everyone just freaks out. But do
          you know how lucky you all are?

                    JASON
          What are you talking about, man?

                    CHAD
          How many people do you think get
          the chance for something like this.

                    CHLOE
          The chance to die?

                    CHAD
          The chance to live! To be free
          from people always telling what you
          can and can't do. There's no rules
          out here, Chloe. It's just us
          against them. And if you don't
          think you can handle that, then
          maybe you deserve to die.

They all look at Chad, shocked.   Suddenly, a distant noise.

                    JASON
          You hear that?

They listen.   It almost sounds like--
                                                            41.



                    NAOMI
          Chuck got the police!    Come on,
          lets go!!

The girls run toward the sound.    Chad calls after them.

                    CHAD
          No! Fuck the cops! The cops
          aren't gonna help us!! Don't you
          idiots know anything!?

But they are gone.

EXT. APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS - DAY

An overhead shot, sweeping across the heavily forested
mountains. In the distance, speeding along a small dirt road
and kicking up a rooster tail of dust, is a POLICE TRUCK.

INT. POLICE TRUCK - DAY

Chuck sits next to the Sheriff.    He looks over at Chuck, who
seems agitated.

                    SHERIFF
          Now, don't you worry. I'm sure
          your friends are fine. It was
          probably just a little
          misunderstanding, that's all.

                      CHUCK
          Look out!

The Sheriff swerves around Chloe, who is covered in blood and
running down the middle of the road.

EXT. ROAD - CONTINUOUS

The truck slides to a stop, and Chloe throws herself onto the
hood, screaming and crying.

                      CHLOE
          Help us!    Help!

                      CHUCK
          Chloe?

                    CHLOE
          They're dead.

                      SHERIFF
          Whoa.    Hey now. Slow down there.
                                                               42.



                    CHLOE
          They killed them!

The rest of the kids emerge from the woods.         Except for Chad,
he's nowhere to be seen.

                    SHERIFF
          Okay, stay calm. Why don't you
          kids climb in the back seat and
          we'll go have a look.

Chad is in the bushes at the side of the road.

                    CHAD
              (sotto)
          Stupid fucks.

He can only watch as his friends pile into the back of the
Police Truck.

INT. CABIN - DAY

Tucker and Dale pull on Mike's legs, trying to dislodge his
head from the woodchipper. It's a gooey congealed mess.

                    DALE
          I don't think I have the stomach
          for this.

                    TUCKER
          Yeah, he's really jammed in there,
          huh? That store better not charge
          me for this.
              (gets a better grip)
          Okay... on three...

                          DALE
          Alright.

                          TUCKER
          One.     Two.     Three.

The two of them pull as hard as they can, yanking Mike's body
out of the woodchipper. The upper portion of his body is a
headless mass of blood, bones, and bodily fluids.

The body SPLATS down on top of Dale.

                      DALE
          Ahhhh!    Get him off!     Get him off!

Tucker pulls Mike's body off of Dale.      Dale stands.
                                                        43.



                    TUCKER
          Alright, now grab a leg and let's
          pull him over to the truck.

The two of them begin dragging the headless body, when the
sound of car tires on gravel grabs their attention.

The Sheriff's Truck comes to a stop in plain sight of them.

                       DALE
          Oh shit.

Tucker and Dale stand stock still, each of them holding a leg
of the headless college kid. They turn and look at the
POLICE VEHICLE like a couple of deer caught in headlights.

                    TUCKER
              (softly)
          Let me do the talking.

                       DALE
          Good idea.

INT. POLICE SUV - CONTINUOUS

The Sheriff and kids spot Tucker and Dale each holding a foot
of Mike's headless body.

                    SHERIFF
          You kids stay put.      I'll handle
          this.

He exits the vehicle, taking the keys with him.

EXT. CABIN - CONTINUOUS

The Sheriff slams the door and walks toward Tucker and Dale.

                    TUCKER
          It's good to see you again,
          Officer. Boy, have we had a doosy
          of a day.

Tucker drops Mike's leg.      It falls with a THUD.

                    DALE
          A real doosy.

The Sheriff stares at them, caught in a moment disbelief.
                                                        44.



                    TUCKER
          You'll never believe it, but there
          we were, just hangin' out, minding
          our own business, working on some
          improvements for my new place, when
          all of a sudden these kids started
          killin' themselves all over the
          property here.

                    DALE
          This one dove head first right into
          the woodchipper.

                    TUCKER
          There's another one over there that
          done shoved a spear straight
          through his gullet.

                    DALE
          Straight through.

                    TUCKER
          I don't know if you've ever been
          through anything like that, but we
          were scared shitless.

                      DALE
          Shitless.

The Sheriff pops open the button on his gun belt and shakes
his head, spitting tobacco on the ground.

                    SHERIFF
          You've got to think I'm some kind
          of moron to believe that story.

                    DALE
          Oh... no, sir.

                    TUCKER
          No sir, not a moron.

INT. POLICE SUV - CONTINUOUS

The kids watch the Sheriff talk to the hillbillies.

                    CHLOE
          What's he doing? Why the fuck
          doesn't he just arrest them?
                                                           45.



EXT. CABIN - CONTINUOUS

The Sheriff looks down at Mike's headless body.

                    SHERIFF
          Now, let me get this straight,
          cause I'm having a hard time
          understanding something... You two
          were just working, minding your own
          business, when this kid ran up and
          stuffed his head into that
          woodchipper?

                    TUCKER
          That's a fact sir.

Dale nods along.

                    DALE
          I think they wanted to kill the
          girl too.

Tucker shoots Dale a look, trying to get him to shut up.

                       SHERIFF
          What girl?

                    DALE
          The girl we saved from drowning.

                    SHERIFF
          Now, where's she?

                    DALE
          Oh, she's inside. She could
          explain everything...
              (Dale hesitates)
          ...if she weren't unconscious.

Tucker shakes his head.    They're screwed.

                    SHERIFF
          You got another one inside, and you
          say she's unconscious?

Tucker and Dale are silent.

                    SHERIFF
          Well, you better show me what you
          done to her.

They head for the cabin.    Tucker punches Dale's arm.
                                                        46.



                     DALE
          What..?

Tucker just gives him a dirty look.

INT. POLICE SUV - CONTINUOUS

The kids watch as the Sheriff heads for the cabin.

                    JASON
          Where's he going?

                     NAOMI
          No.   Don't go in there.

The kids pound on the windows, trying to get the Sheriff's
attention. It's no use, they disappear inside the cabin.

INT. CABIN - DAY

Allison lies peacefully on her cot. The Sheriff opens her
eye-lid and shines a flashlight in her eye. Her pupil
constricts.

                    SHERIFF
          Well, her eyes are still equal and
          reactive to light. At least she's
          not brain dead.

                    DALE
          Oh, thank God.

The Sheriff just shakes his head.

                    SHERIFF
          I told you boys to stay away from
          this place but you just didn't
          listen, did ya?   Now, you're
          looking at at least two counts of
          involuntary manslaughter, but you'd
          be lucky to get that. Most likely
          you two are gonna get the chair.

                    DALE
          What kind of chair?

                    SHERIFF
          The death chair.

                     DALE
          Oh.
                                                           47.



                    SHERIFF
          Of course, if she really can
          corroborate your story, who
          knows... I guess you got a lot
          riding on her coming out of her
          coma. If you're telling the truth,
          that is.

                    TUCKER
          C'mon Sheriff, do we look like
          psycho killers to you?

                     SHERIFF
          Well, it's hard to say.     Looks can
          be decei--

The Sheriff steps to the support beam in the middle of the
room and leans against it.

            DALE                              TUCKER
No!                             No!

The support beam is immediately knocked loose, which in turn
knocks loose the rafter beam. It swings through the air,
nails pointed outward...

The Sheriff's eyes go wide. SPLAT! The beam connects with
his head sending him flying backwards.

EXT. CABIN - CONTINUOUS

The Sheriff flies out the front door, his skull partially
smashed in. Tucker and Dale come running out SCREAMING.

INT. POLICE SUV - CONTINUOUS

The college kids watch from the police car... freaking out.

EXT. CABIN - CONTINUOUS

In his dying throws, the Sheriff manages to get up and
stumble toward the SUV. He walks all the way to the front
and opens the door.

INT. POLICE SUV - CONTINUOUS

Chuck screams at the sight of the bloody, dying Sheriff.

The Sheriff lifts the radio, is about to speak when he
collapses, ripping the CB cord from the radio in the process.
                                                         48.



                    CHLOE
          They fucking killed him!!!

Jason tries for the doors, they're locked and a METAL GRATE
separates them and the front seat. Jason kicks at the grate.

                    JASON
          Unlock the doors, Chuck!   Unlock
          the fucking doors!

                    NAOMI
          Get the gun, Chuck.

Chuck finally snaps out of it, and looks down at the dead
cop. His gun is in its holster.

EXT. CABIN - CONTINUOUS

Tucker and Dale are even more scared.

                    DALE
          I told you we shoulda fixed that
          beam.

                    TUCKER
          Well maybe if you hadn't been
          playing games with that girl, we
          coulda got to it.

Chuck stands outside the Police Truck with the Sheriff's gun
in his trembling hands. He points it at Tucker and Dale.

                    CHUCK
              (trembling)
          F-f-fuck you. Motherfuckers!

Tucker and Dale turn to see Chuck, pistol in hand.   Their
eyes go wide as Chuck pulls the trigger. NOTHING!

                    DALE
          You got to take the safety off
          there.

Tucker shoots Dale a look.

                    DALE (CONT'D)
          Oh... sorry.

Chuck turns the gun around, trying to figure it out.

                    TUCKER
          DON'T!
                                                           49.



BLAM! The gun goes off, shooting Chuck in the head and
spraying blood all over the window of the police truck.

                    TUCKER (CONT'D)
          Holy shit! You kids have got to
          start being more careful.

Suddenly, Chad runs out of the bushes and grabs the gun.

                      TUCKER
          Look out.

He pulls Dale inside the cabin door as a gun blast tears a
whole in the wall.

INT. CABIN - CONTINUOUS

Tucker and Dale dive on the ground. Tucker pushes the door
shut with his foot as wood splinters fly around them.

                    TUCKER
          You know somethin', Dale? None of
          this woulda happened if you weren't
          such a goddamn good samaritan.
              (imitating Dale)
          Ooh. She's drowning. Let's do
          something, Tucker! Help!

                    DALE
          Hey, I ain't the one that wanted to
          go fishing in the first place. I
          don't even like fishing.

                    TUCKER
              (suddenly hurt)
          You don't like fishing?

                    DALE
          I... I like it okay. I'm sorry,
          did I hurt your feelings?

                      TUCKER
          Kinda.

A new volley of gunshots RIP through the cabin walls.

                      TUCKER
          Jesus...

The gunshots stop. Tucker and Dale exchange a look, trying
to figure out what's happening. A dog YELPS outside.
                                                        50.



                    DALE
          Hey, Tucker. Where's Jangers?

                    CHAD (O.S.)
          Hey, hillbillies... It's your
          move.

Dale peers out the window. He sees Jangers tied to the tree,
Chad's pistol pointed at his head. Jangers whines.

                    DALE
          Those kids got my dog, Tucker!

                      TUCKER
          Shit.

                    DALE
              (on the verge of tears)
          We got to do somethin'!

Tucker thinks for a moment.

                    TUCKER
          Did you bring that nail gun in
          here?

                     DALE
          Yeah.   Why?

INT. CABIN - MOMENTS LATER

QUICK SHOTS: Tucker fires up the air compressor, and turns
the PSI all the way up.

He attaches THE NAIL GUN to the hose.

He loads a clip of nails into it.

He thrusts the nail gun into Dale's hands.

                      TUCKER
          Cover me.

                    DALE
          I ain't never shot at nobody
          before.

                    TUCKER
          Just think of them as moving two by
          fours if it helps.

Dale pulls the trigger, and a nail WHIZZES past Tucker's head
and lodges into a wooden beam.
                                                        51.



                    TUCKER
          Whoa.

He pushes the nail gun away from him.

                    DALE
          Sorry.

                    TUCKER
          I'm gonna sneak out the back
          window. You try and create a
          distraction...

Tucker heads for the back of the cabin.

                    TUCKER
          And try an' NOT shoot me, okay?

Dale nods and turns to the window.

EXT. CABIN - MOMENTS LATER

The kids watch, wait for some sign of a response.

                    CHAD
          What the fuck is taking so long?

Suddenly, Dale breaks out a window with the nail gun.

                    DALE
          Hey college kids!   You want some of
          this?

Dale pulls the trigger and a nails fly at the Police SUV.

The nails strike, shattering the windshield, hitting the
radiator and blowing out the tires. By the time Dale stops,
the truck is almost completely destroyed.

The kids hide behind the SUV, narrowly missing flying nails.

IN THE BUSHES

Tucker moves through the underbrush, out of sight of the
college kids. He sees the dog tied to a tree. Dale is
screaming and hollering from the cabin, nail gun blazing.

                    DALE
          Hah-hah! You like that? Well,
          there's plenty more where that came
          from! Goddamn freaky college kids!
                                                          52.



Chad rises and unleashes a volley of gun blasts.   BAM!   BAM!
BAM! CLICK!

                    CHAD
          Shit!

Chad ducks down as Dale reappears in the window firing nails
all over the place, SCREAMING like Rambo.

                    TUCKER
              (sotto)
          Jesus, Dale, cool out.

He continues to creep along.

WITH THE COLLEGE KIDS

As Dale drops out of sight, Chad steps forward, pretending
like he's not out of bullets.

                    CHAD
          Hey, Hillbilly. You shoot at us
          again, and your dog's dead!

No response.

                    CHAD
          Now... Bring out the girl.

No response.

                    CHAD
          Okay, then. We're going to kill
          your dog!

Dale pokes his head out the window, looks like he's crying.

                    DALE
          You kill my dog, I swear to God,
          I'll... I'll get really mad!!

                    CHAD
          Then bring out the girl.

In the bushes, Tucker takes a deep breath and makes his
decision, now or never.

                    TUCKER
              (sotto)
          You owe me big for this one, buddy.

He gets up and sprints toward the dog.
                                                          53.



Tucker gets to Jangers. He tries to untie the rope.    Then
realizes he can just slip it over her head.

                    TUCKER
              (whispers)
          Go home, Jangers.

Jangers turns and runs straight into the woods.

                    TUCKER
          Wrong way, shithead.

The college kids turn around.    Tucker's just standing there.

                    TUCKER
          Hi, howya doin'. Mighty nice day
          for a run, isn't it?

He turns and sprints into the woods.   The kids run after him.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Tucker runs through the woods, branches slapping against his
chest, legs, face. He looks over his shoulder and sees...

The college kids running toward him, relentlessly.

He trips, falls on his face, Chad's already there.   Tucker
crawls backward, hopelessly trying to escape.

                    TUCKER
          No... please. No!

Chad punches Tucker in the face.

                                              CUT TO BLACK:

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

At first everything is a blur. Then things start to come
into focus. A fog has rolled in through the trees. Tucker
raises his head and takes in his situation...

He's wrapped up in a VOLLEYBALL NET strung up between two
trees about eight feet up. Beneath him the college kids are
covering up some kind of trap with leaves and branches.

                    NAOMI
          Okay, are we done yet?

                    CHAD
          Just a little more.
                                                         54.



They throw more dirt over the pit.   Jason notices Tucker.

                    JASON
          Hey... he's awake.

                    TUCKER
          What in the hell's a' matter with
          you kids?

                     CHAD
          What's the matter with us?
              (to Jason)
          Lower him.

Jason walks over to the tree and loosens the volleyball net,
lowering Tucker to the ground. Chad looks him in the eye.

                    CHAD
          I've never stood so close to pure
          evil before.
              (sniffing the air)
          It kind of stinks.

Tucker smells his armpit and shrugs.

                    TUCKER
          They say 24 hour protection.

Chad holds his hatchet up to Tuckers face.

                    TUCKER
          Whoa. Listen, I know you kids are
          havin' fun and all, but I'm not
          really much of a thrill seeker.

                    CHAD
          It's time for payback, hillbilly.

Chad moves the blade toward Tucker's hand, grabs a finger.

                    TUCKER
          Tell you what, you let me go and
          I'll go get my cooler... I got at
          least ten maybe fifteen beers in
          there...

                    CHAD
          This is for Mike!

                    TUCKER
          No, come on. Hey.    That's so not--
                                                           55.



Chad raises the hatchet, and brings it down, blood splatters
across his face. Tucker SCREAMS out in pain.

EXT. WOODS - CONTINUOUS

Tucker's SCREAMS echo through the foggy woods, shattering the
eerie calm.

INT. CABIN - NIGHT

Dale uses a warm rag to wipe the blood and dirt off Allison's
face. She has a newer and bigger bandage on her forehead.
She opens her eyes and looks over Dale.

                       ALLISON
          Dale?

                     DALE
          Allison?   How are you feelin'?

                    ALLISON
          I feel... a little fuzzy.    What
          happened?

                    DALE
          Well, I... I can't really...

Dale just starts sobbing.    It all comes pouring out.   She
pats him on the back.

                    DALE
          Oh, God... It was awful. I'm
          sorry... I'm so embarrassed.

                       ALLISON
          It's okay.     Sometimes its good to
          cry.

                    DALE
              (crying harder)
          I was so scared...

                    ALLISON
          There... just let it out.

Finally Dale starts to breath.

                    ALLISON
          Okay, now tell me what happened.

Dale shakes his head, wondering where to begin.
                                                56.



                    DALE
          Well, it's kinda hard to say. Your
          friends... Do some of them take
          medication?

                    ALLISON
          Why?

                    DALE
          `Cause, I think they forgot to take
          it.

                    ALLISON
          What are you talking about?

Allison sits up.

                    ALLISON
          Where are they?

                    DALE
          They're somewhere out there.
          Tryin' to kill my best friend...
          and my dog.

                    ALLISON
          Dale, what's going on?

                    DALE
          The truth is, it don't make no
          sense at all. It's like they all
          just went postal or somethin'.

                    ALLISON
          The last thing I remember I saw
          Chad, and then Todd was running
          toward me... Oh God.

                    DALE
          At first I thought they were tryin'
          to kill you, but then they started
          killing themselves. And then they
          tried to kill us. Then they went
          after Jangers.
              (emotional)
          I guess they just like killin'.

                    ALLISON
          Dale... I think there must have
          been some kind of mistake. My
          friends would never hurt anyone.
                                                          57.



THUMP! Dale jumps at the knock on the door, followed by
footsteps running away from the cabin.

Dale quickly crawls underneath the table, hiding.

                    DALE
          Jesus, they're coming back after
          us. They're not gonna stop until
          we're all dead.

                    ALLISON
          Shhh. It's okay, Dale. It's okay.
          Nobody wants to hurt you.

                    VOICE (O.S.)
          Die Hillbilly!

                    DALE
          It sure sound like someone does.

                    ALLISON
          You just relax. I'm going to go
          talk to them.

Allison gets up and cautiously walks toward the front door.

                    ALLISON
          Don't worry. This is all just a
          big misunderstanding, and we'll
          clear it right up.

She opens the door and steps out.

EXT. CABIN - NIGHT

Allison stands in the doorway and looks out at the dimly lit
woods. Thick fog rolls through, but she can clearly make out
the police truck, Chuck with his head blown off, the dead
Sheriff, and blood everywhere. She can also see Mike's
headless body.

She grabs onto the railing of the porch to keep herself from
fainting.

                       ALLISON
          Oh my god.

She looks back at the cabin, for a moment wondering if Dale
could have done this. Then she glances down at her feet.

A blood-soaked bundle of cloth lies on the ground.
                                                            58.



                    ALLISON
              (calling out)
          Chad? Chloe? Is anyone out there?

There's no response.   She picks up the blood soaked rag.

INT. CABIN - NIGHT

Allison slams the door behind her and gags, tries to recover
from the horrendous sight. Dale leans from under the table.

                    DALE
          Did you see them?

She shakes her head. Dale looks at the bloody rag that
Allison holds in her hand.

                    DALE
          That's from Tucker's shirt.

He grabs it, slowly unfolds the bloody plaid cloth bundle.

Allison SCREAMS and Dale jerks back. Inside the bundle, lies
three bloody severed fingers... Tucker's fingers.

                    DALE
          Oh, God! They... they cut off his
          bowlin' fingers!

Allison is horrified. She sees a small slip of bloody paper
next to the fingers. She reaches down and picks up the note.

                    ALLISON
              (reading)
          Now we got your friend. Try and
          get him.
              (in disbelief)
          Dale, how long was I out for?

                    DALE
          A few hours.

                    ALLISON
          I don't understand how--

Dale gets up, walks to the wall, grabs an old rusted Machete.

                    DALE
          I gotta go help Tucker.

                    ALLISON
          Wait a minute. We can't escalate
          things.
                                                59.



                    DALE
          Escalate things?

                    ALLISON
          Just stop and think about this for
          a moment, okay? They must have
          thought you were trying to harm me.

                    DALE
          I was trying to harm you? They're
          the ones running around killin'
          themselves and cuttin' people's
          fingers off.

                    ALLISON
          But they wouldn't have done that
          unless they thought I was in
          danger.

                    DALE
          And why would they think that?

Allison looks away, embarrassed.

                    ALLISON
          I don't know.

                    DALE
          I think maybe you do know.

                    ALLISON
          Well... when we first saw you guys
          at that store... we thought you
          looked kind of... creepy.

                    DALE
          I was nervous!

                    ALLISON
          Yeah, I know that now, but at the
          time...

                    DALE
          You thought I was some kind of
          freak.

A look of guilt crosses Allison's face.

                    ALLISON
          It wasn't you. It was us.    We
          misjudged you.

He takes this in, and heads for the door.
                                                            60.



                    ALLISON
          I'm sorry, Dale.

                    DALE
          Don't be sorry. It's my fault.         I
          should'a known if a guy like me
          talked to a girl like you,
          somebody'd end up dead.

                      ALLISON
          Dale?

                    DALE
              (Turning back around)
          Oh, if you see your friends, tell
          `em... tell `em I never wanted to
          hurt nobody.

He closes the door behind him.     Allison looks worried.

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

The fog has grown thick, the shadows have grown darker, and
the sounds of the forest louder. Dale walks holding his
machete tight, his silhouette backlit by moonlight.

He walks through the woods, pushing tree branches back.     His
breath is short and broken by fear.

                      DALE
          Tucker?    Tucker?    You out there.

Dale pushes through some branches. He looks down and sees
something lying on the ground before him.

He bends and grabs it.   It's JANGERS' COLLAR.

                      DALE
          Jangers!?    Jangers?

There's a pool of wet blood beneath him.

                      DALE
          No...

He stands up and bumps into THE DISTORTED FACE OF MITCH!!
Dale SCREAMS and falls backwards, looks up at the dead kid.

                    DALE
              (sotto)
          Goddamn stupid college kids. Why
          can't you go kill each other at
          school where your supposed to.
                                                          61.



Dale pulls himself up and begins walking.

                    DALE
              (yelling out)
          Tucker!?

In the distance he hears a strained voice call out, eerily.

                     TUCKER
          Dale?

Dale begins running through the forest, trying to find him.

                     DALE
          Tucker?

                     TUCKER
          Dale?

                    DALE
          I'm comin' buddy!

Dale runs as fast as he can, branches slapping against him.

In the distance, he sees a figure strung up between two
trees. It's an eerie sight in the mist.

                     DALE
          Tucker!?

Tucker looks up at Dale. His face is severely swollen from
the bee stings, he still has blood on him from the
woodchipper incident, and his hand is a bleeding mess.

Dale runs toward him.

                     TUCKER
          Stop!   It's a trap.

Dale stops, but it's too late. The ground gives way and Dale
falls, but only up to his chest.

The soil shakes free around him, revealing a thatched roof to
some kind of death pit. Dale screams and grabs at sticks,
trying to pull himself free, but they all come loose.

                    DALE
          Oh, God... I don't want to die.   I
          don't want to--

He drops out of sight.   Tucker watches in disbelief.
                                                         62.



                      TUCKER
          Dale?

INT. PIT - NIGHT

Dale sits at the bottom of the pit. There are about twenty
hand carved spears pointed upward. He looks to his groin. A
spear has cut through his pants, right between his legs.

He shakes in fear as he slowly reaches out and touches
himself down there. He smiles.

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

Tucker strains against the bonds.

                      TUCKER
          Dale!    Dale!?

A hand reaches up over the edge of the hole. Then another
hand holding a machete. Tired, dirty, and mad, Dale pulls
himself up over the lip of the death pit.

                      TUCKER
          You okay?

                    DALE
          This is the only time you'll ever
          hear me say this, but I'm glad I
          ain't hung like a bear.
              (standing)
          Now, lets get you down from there.

Dale walks up to the rope.

                      TUCKER
          Wait!!!

Dale swings his machete into the rope. The line suddenly
gives way, sending Tucker crashing down to the ground.

                    DALE
          Sorry, `bout that.

                     TUCKER
              (weak)
          I hate this vacation.

EXT. CABIN - NIGHT

In the moonlight, the cabin looks like it has a life of its
own. A single kerosene lamp flickers inside.
                                                           63.



The college kids sneak toward the cabin.

INT. CABIN - DOWNSTAIRS BEDROOM - NIGHT

The window slowly lifts.     Chad and the girls climb through.

Where Tucker and Dale saw nothing but beauty, these kids see
only horror and terror. The room looks like a dungeon.

                    NAOMI
          Look at this place.

Chad looks around, an odd smile spreading across his face.

                    CHAD
          This is where evil lives.

                    NAOMI
          Let's just hope Allison's still
          alive.

Chad walks up to the wall and looks at an old necklace with a
cross on it hanging from a string and covered in cobwebs. He
reaches up and touches it with an odd reverence.

                     NAOMI
          Chad?   C'mon.

Chad grabs the necklace and follows Naomi.

INT. CABIN - NIGHT

Allison throws another log into the wood stove and puts a tea
kettle on top of it.

The floorboards behind her CREAK.    WHISPERING VOICES rise.

                    VOICES (O.S.)
          Allison... Allison.

She looks around, scared.    The whispers surround her.

                     VOICES (O.S.)
          Allison!   Allison! Allison!

The voices start to sound familiar. She turns and sees Chad,
holding his BLOODY HATCHET, poking his head out of the
bedroom, whispering at her.

                     CHAD
          Allison.
                                                        64.



                    ALLISON
          Chad?

                    CHAD
          Shhh!

                    ALLISON
          What the hell are you guys doing?

                    NAOMI
          We're saving you, stupid.   Now come
          on. Let's go.

                    ALLISON
          Why are you guys whispering?
          There's nobody here.

                    CHAD
          Oh.

Chad and Naomi stand and walk into the room.

                    NAOMI
          This place is really freaky.

                    CHAD
          What have they done to you, Allie?

                    ALLISON
          They haven't done anything to me.
          Chad, there's been some kind of
          terrible misunderstanding.

Chad picks up a GASOLINE CAN in the corner and starts pouring
it all over the floors and walls.

                    CHAD
          We have to burn this place to the
          ground. Destroy it completely.

                    ALLISON
          No! We can't do that.   This is
          their vacation home.

Chad and Naomi look at Allison confused.

                    ALLISON
          You guys have to listen to me.
          Tucker and Dale didn't mean to hurt
          anyone. They're really nice.

Chad tosses the GAS CAN and a wave of hostility passes over
him as he glares at Allison.
                                                            65.



                    CHAD
          You have no idea what this is all
          about do you, Allie?

She shakes her head.    He runs a finger across her face.

                    CHAD
          These freaks are evil. And they
          deserve everything that's coming to
          them.

                    ALLISON
          But Tucker and Dale aren't evil.

                    CHAD
              (suddenly enraged)
          DON'T TELL ME WHO ISN'T EVIL!!

                    ALLISON
          Okay. Okay. Relax. I'm just
          trying to explain that this has all
          been a terrible misunderstanding.
          Tucker and Dale have been nothing
          but gentlemen while you guys have
          been running around terrorizing
          them!

                    NAOMI
          But they started this!

                    ALLISON
          By doing what? Saving my life?

Chad and Naomi look at each other confused.

                     NAOMI
          Wait a minute. I remember reading
          about this in my sociology class.
          It's called the Stockholm Syndrome.
          When someone who's been kidnapped
          ends up falling in love with their
          kidnapper.

Chad suddenly turns on Allison, enraged.

                    CHAD
          You're falling in love with him!??

                       ALLISON
          No. What?      Chad, I'm trying to
          explain...
                                                           66.



                    CHAD
          Tell me you're not in love with
          that freak, Allison.

Chad moves toward her, gripping his hatchet like a weapon.
Allison shakes her head, afraid.

                    CHAD
          How could you love him?

                    ALLISON
          Chad, please. You don't
          understand.

He backs her up against the wall.

                    CHAD
          Are you or are you NOT in love with
          him?

                    ALLISON
          What is the matter with you!??

Chad shoves her back, pinning her against the wall by her
throat. She struggles to breathe. Naomi watches, unsure
what to do.

                     CHAD
          Tell me!

The DOOR FLIES OPEN. Dale stands in the doorway, muddy,
covered in blood stains, and with the machete in his hand.
Tucker, looking even worse, leans at his side.

                    DALE
          Let the girl go.

Chad hesitates, then releases her.   Allison keels over,
coughing.

                    DALE
          You okay, Allie?

She nods, catches her breath.   Chad glances from her to Dale.

                     CHAD
          Allie?   Did he just call you Allie?

Chad steps forward, ready for a fight.
                                                         67.



                    ALLISON
          Wait! Everybody just stop for a
          second and let's talk this out.
          Nobody wants to hurt anyone.

Tucker holds up his bloody hand.

                    TUCKER
          You coulda fooled me.

                    CHAD
          Fuck off, hillbilly.

                     ALLISON
          Wait!

They all eye each other mistrustfully. Chad and Dale are
seconds from going full tilt. The tension crescendos as the
tea kettle WHISTLES loudly.

                    ALLISON
          How about I make some tea... and we
          sit down... and we talk things out.

Everyone looks at her like she's crazy.   Allison pulls out a
seat for each of them at the table.

                     ALLISON
          Chad.   Sit here.

Chad hesitates, but sits down, pissed off.

                     ALLISON
          Dale.   You sit here.

Dale hesitates too, but grudgingly sits opposite Chad.

Covered in blood, sweat, and dirt, they stare each other down
across the table. Chad grips his hatchet tight. Dale grips
his machete.

Allison pours tea for them.

                    CHAD
          This isn't Chamomile, is it? I
          hate Chamomile. It fucks with my
          asthma.

                    ALLISON
          It's Earl Grey.
                                                         68.



                    DALE
              (excited)
          Oh, I love Earl Grey.

Dale and Chad take sips while they stare each other down.

                    ALLISON
          Okay. Here's what we're going to
          do. I want each of you to explain
          their side of the story. As you're
          listening to the other person, I
          want you to imagine you're in their
          shoes. Okay?

                    DALE
          Okay.

                    ALLISON
          Now, it's important that we
          communicate our feelings and
          understand each other's perspective
          before any progress can be made.
          Chad, why don't you start.

                    CHAD
          Where should I fucking begin?

                    ALLISON
          Wherever you'd like.

Chad stares down Dale.   When he finally speaks, his voice is
dark and hollow.

                    CHAD
          A long time ago... before I was
          born...

                    ALLISON
          Okay, maybe not that far back.

                    CHAD
          This is important! You see... my
          parents were attacked by
          hillbillies like him.

Everyone turns and looks at Chad, shocked.

                    CHAD
          It was twenty years ago - the
          memorial day massacre...
                                                         69.



EXT. WOODS - DAY - FLASHBACK

BLINDING LIGHT punctuated with a SCREAM.   A SAW rips through
flesh.

                    CHAD (V.O.)
          They brutally murdered everyone...
          just for fun.

Cheryl, Chad's Mom, tries to run away but slams right into
the chest of a hillbilly. She turns to run the other way,
but a second hillbilly picks her up and throws her over his
shoulder.

                    CHAD (V.O.)
          My mother didn't even know she was
          pregnant with me yet. But they
          captured her...

INT. CABIN - DAY - FLASHBACK

The HILLBILLY FREAKS toss Cheryl into the cabin. His Dad is
on the floor, a rag stuffed into his mouth. He looks up at
Cheryl with horror in his eyes.

                    CHAD (V.O.)
          And they tortured her...

AN IRON CROSS NECKLACE is dangling over a candle. They take
the necklace and press it against his mother's neck. It
sears a scar into her neck.

                    CHAD (V.O.)
          My father was helpless...

His arms are bound behind is back, and he can't move.

                    CHAD (V.O.)
          But my Mom outsmarted them...

Cheryl stabs a screwdriver into the hillbilly's leg and runs
out of the cabin.

                    CHAD (V.O.)
          ...and escaped. My father wasn't
          so lucky.

They slam the pizza oven/incinerator door. Chad's father's
hands grab hold of the iron bars as the flames engulf him.

                    CHAD (V.O.)
          His body was never found.
                                                          70.



INT. CABIN - NIGHT - END FLASHBACK

Pulling out off Chad's eye... the flames slowly recede.
Chad's voice is hollow, and divorced from all emotion.

                    CHAD
          By the time I was born, my mother
          was already institutionalized, and
          I grew up hearing that story from
          my Grandmother.

Everyone stares at Chad, speechless. Allison searches for
something to say, but she's clearly in over her head.

                    ALLISON
          Okay. Thank you for sharing with
          us, Chad. Dale, do you have
          anything to say?

Dale is speechless.

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

The cabin lights glow in the distance.    Jason and Chloe make
their way under the cover of darkness.

                       CHLOE
          Nah ah.     I'm not going in there.

                    JASON
          Chad said if they were more than
          fifteen minutes, come in guns
          blazing.

                    CHLOE
          You don't even have a gun.

                    JASON
          Damnit, don't argue with me, woman!

Chloe makes a face behind him as he moves on.

Jason looks about, notices a weed-whacker resting nearby.

INT. CABIN - NIGHT

Everyone is still lingering on Chad's story.    Allison
continues to moderate the peace settlement.

                       ALLISON
          Dale?
                                                        71.



                    DALE
          Well... first off, I'm real sorry
          about your parents gettin'
          massacred and all.

Allison nods her approval.

                    DALE
          But I gotta say I didn't have
          nothin' to do with it. I woulda
          been like six years old.

Chad looks up at Dale and takes a hit off his asthma inhaler.

                    CHAD
          It may not have been you, but it
          was definitely your kind.

                     DALE
          My kind?   I don't even like hurtin'
          fish.

                    TUCKER
          It's true... He doesn't like
          fishin'.
              (off the kids' look)
          I know, I was surprised too.

                    ALLISON
          Okay. Now that you've both
          expressed your points of view.   How
          do you feel?

Dale takes a deep breath, a lets out the tension.

                    DALE
          I feel better. Thanks.

                     ALLISON
          Great.   Now lets just shake hands,
          and--

The door flies open and Jason charges in, the weed-whacker
raised high, the spinning string screaming through the air.

                    JASON
          It's show time freaks!!!

                     ALLISON
          No!!!!

He runs straight for Tucker. But Tucker's already off
balance and falls out of Jason's path.
                                                        72.



Moving too fast to stop, Jason turns the weed-whacker and
stumbles into... Naomi. The spinning string rips into her
face. Blood splatters onto Chloe as she SCREAMS.

Chad takes advantage of the moment. He flips the table and
jumps at Dale, swinging his hatchet down at him. The blade
misses and digs into the table near Dale's face.

He raises the hatchet again.

                    CHAD
          This is for my Dad!

Allison grabs Chad's hand.

                    ALLISON
          Chad, you have to stop this--

Chad backhands her.   Dale is enraged.

                    DALE
          Alright! That's it! There's only
          so much Dale Dobson gonna take!

Chad picks up the machete and the hatchet, and spins them in
his hands like a martial arts master. Dale hesitates.

                    DALE
          Don't make me come over there.

Jason recovers from the horror of killing Naomi and turns.

                    JASON
          Goddamn it!

He raises the weed-whacker over his head to strike again.
Tucker's still dazed and unable to move as Jason approaches.

                      TUCKER
          No!!!

Chad picks up the KEROSENE LANTERN off the counter.

                    CHAD
          Go back to hell, where you belong,
          freak!

He tosses the lantern at Dale.   But Dale ducks!

CRASH!!! The lantern shatters in Jason's face as he's about
to strike Tucker with the weed-whacker! He drops the weapon
and SCREAMS as his body is engulfed in fire.
                                                           73.



Chloe quickly grabs a can of liquid.

                    TUCKER
          No, not that!

Chloe tosses the liquid on Jason and he suddenly erupts into
a fireball. Chloe looks at the can it reads "PAINT THINNER".

                      CHLOE
          Shit.

Jason reaches to her for help, embracing her in a firey hug.
Chloe is quickly consumed, becoming a second flaming torch.

Everyone freezes, mouths agape, overwhelmed by the sight of
two burning kids running about. Everything they touch
catches on fire. The counters, the doorway, the curtains.

                    TUCKER
          Hey... not cool.

Chloe stumbles into a few more cans of paint thinner igniting
them on fire, then collapses next to SEVERAL FUEL TANKS.

                    TUCKER
          ...I knew I shoulda moved those.
          Run for it!

Dale grabs Allison and follows Tucker for the door. Chad
reaches for them, but Naomi grabs his leg. Chad turns and
looks at her: She's hardly more than a living skull...

                      NAOMI
          Help me.

                    CHAD
          Get off of me, you nasty bitch!

He kicks at her, trying to free himself.

EXT. CABIN - NIGHT

Tucker, Dale and Allison burst from the cabin just in time.
It suddenly ERUPTS in a ball of fire as the gasoline ignites.

The blast knocks the trio to the ground.

They slowly pick themselves up, disoriented.   The fiery
timbers of the cabin collapse inward.

                      TUCKER
          My cabin!
                                                           74.



Tucker is devastated as his dream goes up in flames.

The three of them can do nothing, only watch the burning
timbers of his cabin. We dolly across the three forlorn
faces--

                     ALLISON
          Jesus.

                     DALE
          Goddamn.

                     TUCKER
          Fuck.

Something moves inside the flaming wreckage...

                    ALLISON
          Oh my God...

Rising out of the smoldering debris and ashes is a demented
looking figure.

Partially burned from the fire.

WHEEZING as his seared lungs fight for air.

IT'S A DEMONIZED CHAD!!!

Sparks fall around him as he throws a burning beam aside, and
takes a hit off his partially melted inhaler.

                    TUCKER
          Them college kids are tough!

                    DALE
          Get to the truck.    Now!

The trio scrambles for the beat up old Chevy.

Chad steps from the blazing ruins of the cabin. His polo
shirt is torn and smoldering. His skin is charred and
disfigured. Smoke rises from his hair.

INT. TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Dale and Allison help Tucker into the truck and then jump
inside. Dale cranks the ignition, but it only WHIRS and
WHIRS, refusing to catch.

                    DALE
          Oh, come on.
                                                            75.



Allison looks out the back window.

                    ALLISON
          Hurry, Dale. He's coming!

Dale pumps the gas and turns the key.    CLICK!   CLICK!   CLICK!

                    TUCKER
          What're you doing?     You're gonna
          flood it.

                    DALE
          You wanna drive?

                       ALLISON
          Guys!

EXT. TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Chad limps towards the truck, closing ground quickly.

INT. TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Tucker's had enough.

                       TUCKER
          Here.

Tucker leans over and turns the keys with his good hand. The
ignition catches. Dale floors it... but it's in reverse!

EXT. TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

The truck ROARS backwards... and slams right into Chad!

INT. TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Allison SCREAMS as Chad is knocked from sight.

Dale slips the truck into first and the truck peels away.

EXT. FOREST ROAD - NIGHT

The truck shoots out onto the forest road.

The glowing blaze of the cabin lights the woods behind them
as they race into darkness. Only one of the truck's
headlights illuminates the way.
                                                        76.



INT. TUCKER'S TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Allison sits between Tucker and Dale, crying as they speed
off down the dirt road. Dale drives, frantically.

                    ALLISON
          This is all my fault. This all
          happened because of me.

                    DALE
          That's not true.      Don't be so hard
          on yourself.

                    TUCKER
          Hell, you were unconscious half the
          time.

                    ALLISON
              (crying)
          I'm a terrible therapist.

                    DALE
          No, don't say that. It's not true.
              (trying to cheer her up)
          I feel like I could talk to you
          about anything.

                      ALLISON
          Really?

                      DALE
          Sure.

Allison sniffles, feeling better. The truck hits a rough
patch of road as it skids around a corner.

                    TUCKER
          Easy, Dale. This truck is the only
          thing I got left.

Dale continues talking to Allison.

                    DALE
          For instance, I'd probably have a
          hard time telling Tucker this, but
          I feel like I can tell you.

                      ALLISON
          Go ahead.

                    DALE
          We ain't got no brakes.
                                                          77.



                     TUCKER
          What?!

                    DALE
          See. He takes everything so
          personal.

Dale cranks the wheel as they speed around a corner.    Ahead
of them the road declines into a steep hill.

                     DALE
          Hang on!

Everyone grabs hold of the dashboard.

EXT. DIRT ROAD - CONTINUOUS

The truck flies down the hill out of control, going faster
and faster. It slides sideways, but Dale's able to keep it
on the road.

The truck slows as they head up a short hill.

INT. TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

The group relaxes.

                    DALE
          Well, that wasn't so bad, now was
          it?

But as they come over the hill, the lights shine down
revealing an even longer downhill run.

It's like the top of a roller coaster. They creep over the
edge, but the descent is swift. They all SCREAM!

EXT. ROAD - CONTINUOUS

The truck barrels down the road, out of control. It hits a
bump and flies into the air, crashing down just before a
sharp right turn. It careens around the corner and then
comes into a straight away.

INT. TUCKER'S TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Everyone hoots with excitement, amazed they're alive.

                    ALLISON
          Nice driving, Dale!
                                                             78.



                    TUCKER
          You were like Jeff Gordon there!

                    ALLISON
          Who's that?

They both look at her like she's insane.

BAM! A figure slams onto the windshield.     A smoldering,
creepy looking, demented figure. Chad!

                    DALE
          AHHH!!!

Chad pounds at the window with his fist.

                    TUCKER
          Hey, get off my truck!

                    ALLISON
          Chad, I know you're really upset,
          but you have to let it go.

                    DALE
          Yeah, let go!

Dale flicks on the windshield wipers.   They swing back and
forth, slapping Chad in the face.

Chad grabs the wiper blades and rips them from the truck.

                    TUCKER
          Ah, c'mon, man!

Dale cranks the wheel back and forth trying to shake him, but
only manages to bank off of a couple of trees.

                    TUCKER
          Watch the truck, Dale!!

Chad smashes his hatchet through the front windshield.

                    TUCKER
          Hey!

Chad sticks his face through the hole in the windshield.

                    CHAD
          Time to reap what you sow.

Chad swings the hatchet at Tucker's face, but Tucker catches
his arm.
                                                               79.



                       TUCKER
             That's what my Dad always said.
             And he's still alive!

BAM! Tucker punches him in the face, sending him flying.         He
rolls off the hood.

The three watch as Chad tumbles onto the road behind them.

                        DALE
             Hah.   Well, that wasn't so--

He looks up and sees...

The truck is sliding straight for a tree!      Dale hits the
brakes...

NOTHING!!!

He grips the wheel and SCREAMS!

EXT. DIRT ROAD - CONTINUOUS

THE TRUCK SLAMS INTO A TREE. The hood crumples, and the
three of them slam into the dashboard violently.

INT. TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

Steam rises from the radiator, the windshield is cracked, and
the truck is demolished. One of the turn signals flashes
creating an eerie light show in the thinning fog.

Dale, Tucker and Allison are hunched over, beaten senseless
from the crash. Finally, Dale stirs.

                        DALE
             Allie?

Dale reaches over for Allison.     She lies unconscious.

                       DALE
             Allie, you okay?

Tucker moves. His nose is broken and his lower half of his
face is drenched in blood.

                       TUCKER
             I'm fine, thanks for asking.

Dale puts his finger against her neck, checking her pulse.
                                                         80.



                    TUCKER
          Is she out again?

                    DALE
          Yeah, I guess so.

                     TUCKER
          You know, she's a real special girl
          and all, but she sure gets knocked
          out a lot.

                    DALE
          Well, at least she's still alive.

                     TUCKER
          Yeah.   Halle-fuckin'-lujah.

                    DALE
          Hey, don't blame everything on her.

                    TUCKER
          I'm not blaming everything on her,
          I'm blaming everything on you.

                    DALE
          You're the one who told me to talk
          to her in the first place.

                    TUCKER
          I didn't tell you to die for her!

EXT. DIRT ROAD - CONTINUOUS

Beaten, bloody, demented, and with a bad case of asthma, Chad
pulls himself up off of the dirt road. He stands and looks
over at the truck, broken up against the tree.

INT. TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Tucker and Dale are still fighting.

                    TUCKER
          You know how much it's gonna cost
          me to get this truck fixed?

                    DALE
          Well, at least your turn signal
          works now. Look!

Tucker glances into his shattered side mirror.   It's true.
The turn signal works.
                                                           81.



                    TUCKER
          Well that's great, Dale. I'm sure
          the dead cop will be real happy.

In the rearview mirror sees Chad picking up his hatchet in
the middle of the road.

                     TUCKER
          Oh shit.

                    DALE
          What is it?

                    TUCKER
          We'd better get a move on...

Unable to open the doors, Tucker kicks at the shattered
windshield, knocking it out. He climbs out onto the hood.

                    TUCKER
          Give me her arms.

They maneuver the unconscious girl out of the truck.

Dale slides out on his belly and SPLATS down in the mud.    He
pulls himself up and freezes.

An axe flies out of the darkness. It slams into the side of
the truck, missing Dale's head by inches.

                    TUCKER
          C'mon, grab her legs!

Dale helps lift the girl and they run off into the woods.

Chad walks up to the Truck and tries to pull his hatchet out
of the metal. It's wedged in too tight.

He spots the brush clearing SCYTHE in the bed of the truck.

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

Tucker and Dale rush with Allison through the forest.   They
are being watched through the foliage.

                    TUCKER
          I tell ya, Dale. It's gonna be a
          long time before I take a vacation
          again.

                    DALE
          It's gonna be a long time before I
          talk to a girl again.
                                                           82.



Tucker slows as he catches his breath.

                     TUCKER
          Okay.   Break time.

                    DALE
          What do you mean break time?   We
          don't got time for a break!?

Dale yanks on Allison again, throwing Tucker off balance.

                    TUCKER
          If you haven't noticed, Dale, I'm
          kinda hurting here.

                    DALE
          Well, shake it off.

                    TUCKER
          Why don't you shake this?

He flips Dale off. Both men stare at Tucker's bloody hand,
the middle finger is missing.

                    TUCKER
          You know what I mean.

Dale notices a figure standing on a ridge behind Tucker.

                    DALE
          Holee crap.

Tucker turns to see: a figure with a SCYTHE, backlit by
moonlight and fog, he looks like an apparition that's come to
steal their souls.

                    TUCKER
          Okay, break's over.

Tucker grabs Allison's legs and they move off into the woods.

EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

CHAD'S POV: We hear the sounds of heaving breathing, as
branches fly past us. And then we're running all out toward
Tucker and Dale.

                      TUCKER
          Come on!!

                    DALE
          He's gaining on us!!
                                                             83.



Tucker and Dale look back, and then run faster.

                       TUCKER
          Run DALE!!

The branches rip past us... the breathing grows more frantic.

Then Dale slips, falling on the ground, and dropping Allison.
He rolls over, attempting to defend himself...

But it's too late, the dark mass leaps up onto him.

                    DALE
          Get him off! Get him off!

Tucker doesn't have time to react.      The mass digs into Dale's
face, licking him all over.

                       DALE
          Jangers?

The dog is even more excited than Dale is.

                    DALE
          Jangers, you're alive!! What were
          you doing out here all alone? Huh?
          Were you scared, girl? Were you?

As Dale plays with Jangers, Tucker glances nervously into the
darkness.

                    TUCKER
          Maybe we should have this reunion
          some place else.

Jangers turns toward the darkness, her ears perked up.      She
starts to growl.

                    DALE
          What is it girl?       What is it?

They listen.   It's quiet.      Their breath is the only sound.

                    TUCKER
              (softly)
          College kids.

                    DALE
          Well, C'mon lets get the hell outta
          here.

Tucker turns around, right into the terrifying face of CHAD!
                                                         84.



                      TUCKER
          Ahhhh!!!

Chad raises the Scythe and swings it down hard into Tucker's
gut. Tucker falls to his knees.

                      DALE
          Tucker!!

Jangers rushes at Chad, biting his leg.   Chad moves back into
the woods, vanishing into the darkness.   Jangers yelps, and
then there is only silence.

                      DALE
          Jangers!?

Dale drops to Tucker's side, cradling him in his arms.

                      DALE
          Tucker?    Say somethin', old buddy.

Tucker spits up some blood.

                    TUCKER
          That kid's got some serious issues.

                      DALE
          I know.

Tucker coughs, spits up blood.

                    DALE
          Listen, Tucker, you were right,
          this is all my fault. I'm sorry.
          I never should'a talked to Allison.
          People like her and people like me
          were never meant to mix.

                    TUCKER
          That's not true.

Tucker grabs Dales arm.

                     TUCKER
              (weak)
          Dale... Listen to me. Remember
          when we were kids, and we used to
          catch frogs down at the creek?

                    DALE
          Uh... yeah I guess so.
                                      85.



          TUCKER
Remember how we used to compete to
see how many we could catch?

          DALE
Tucker I don't know if this is the
time...

          TUCKER
I used to tell you I let you catch
more than me `cause I felt sorry
for you.

          DALE
Yeah, I remember. And you let me
lick `em too. Man, did that make
me feel funny.

          TUCKER
Well, the thing was. I didn't let
you catch them... You was just
quicker than I was.

          DALE
C'mon Tucker...

          TUCKER
It's true, Dale. I always said I
let you have `em, but the thing
is... you got `em all on your own.

          DALE
Oh... Okay...

          TUCKER
What I'm sayin' is... you're better
than you think you are.
    (getting weaker)
She knows that too. I seen the way
you two look at each other. I
think she really sees you for who
you are. Who knows, maybe after
this whole experience she'll be
fucked up enough to go out on a
date with you.

          DALE
I doubt it.

          TUCKER
That's just it, Dale.
    (spitting up blood)
          (MORE)
                                                         86.

                    TUCKER (CONT'D)
          I don't want to hear any more
          negativity, okay? You're a good
          man. You're smart. You're strong.
          And you're not as ugly as you think
          you are.

                    DALE
          Thanks, Tucker. That means a lot
          comin' from you.

Dale looks over at Allison.   She's Gone!

                     DALE
          Oh shit.   That kid got Allison!

He scans the dark.   Chad's laughter echoes in the distance.

                    TUCKER
          Listen to me, Buddy. Life's short,
          and you gotta go after what you
          want. Go after her, Dale. She
          needs you. Maybe even more than
          you need her.

                    DALE
          I ain't gonna leave you.

                    TUCKER
          Don't worry about me, I'll be fine.

Tucker chokes, spitting up more blood.

                    DALE
          Then you're coming with me.

Dale begins to pick up Tucker.

                     TUCKER
          No... not this time. You got to do
          this one on your own, buddy.
              (Holding out his bandaged
               hand)
          Friends forever?

Dale pauses, then clasps his hand tight.

                    DALE
          Friends forever.

                    TUCKER
          Ouch... Now, get outta here and go
          kick that little frat boy's ass.

Dale hesitates.
                                                          87.



                     TUCKER
          Go!

Dale looks at his best friend for the last time... Tucker
manages a smile. Dale turns and runs off into the woods.

Tucker stares up into the heavens.

                    TUCKER
          Ice up the beer, Lord.     I'm comin'
          home.

His gaze becomes distant. Suddenly a dark mass moves over
him. It's Jangers. She licks at his face.

                    TUCKER
          Stop it. Cut it out. Let me die
          in peace for chrissakes.

But Jangers just keeps licking him.

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

Dale runs as fast as he can through the forest.

In the distance he sees a light shining.    He picks up speed
as he runs down the hill.

EXT. LUMBER MILL - NIGHT

Dale runs through the grassy meadow that surrounds the old,
abandoned lumber mill.

Buildings loom before him. They're old, rotted, even more
decrepid and menacing than the cabin looked.

EXT. LUMBER MILL - FENCE - MOMENTS LATER

Dale runs along a ten-foot tall chain-link fence. He spots a
figure dragging a body across the lumber yard. It's Chad!

                    DALE
          Alright, you sonnova bitch.

He grabs hold of the fence and starts to climb.

                    DALE
          I'll play your game.

He swings his leg over the top of the fence and drops.
                                                        88.



But he only drops a few feet. His flannel shirt snags on the
top of the fence and he just hangs there.

                    DALE
          Oh, come on.

He wriggles about. But he can only hang there, looking like
a scarecrow on a post.

INT. LUMBER MILL - NIGHT

Old broken down equipment and rotting logs are strewn about.
Shafts of moonlight shine through the window.

Chad sits on the floor with Allison's head lying in his lap.
He brushes her hair out of her face as he gazes at her in a
loving, demented sort of way. Her eyes flutter open.

                    ALLISON
          What happened? Chad?

                    CHAD
          I love it when you say my name.

                    ALLISON
          What are you doing?

                       CHAD
          It's okay.     You're safe now.

                     ALLISON
          What?   What did you do to--

                     CHAD
          Shhh.   Don't talk.   Just rest.

                    ALLISON
          Chad, what did you do?

                    CHAD
          I did what I had to. And thank God
          I got to you before...

                    ALLISON
          Before what?

                    CHAD
          Before they did awful things to
          you, Allie.

                    ALLISON
          You have to stop this.
                                                         89.



                       CHAD
          Stop what?

                    ALLISON
          They didn't do anything--

                    CHAD
          Shhh... It's okay.    It's all over.
          You're with me now.   And I won't
          ever leave you.

Chad bends down and kisses Allison.   She is repulsed by him.

EXT. LUMBER MILL - NIGHT

Allison's SCREAM ECHOES through the abandoned mill.

Dale is still stuck on the fence, struggling to get free.

                       DALE
          C'mon.

He shakes about. Finally, he's able to twist around and face
the fence. He sets his hands and feet inside the chain links
and lifts himself up, freeing his shirt.

                       DALE
          Ha ha!!!

With a CREAK and GROAN of metal, the old fence folds and Dale
hits the ground face first. He rolls over, dazed.

INT. LUMBER MILL - NIGHT

Allison is sitting up against a GIGANTIC piece of lumber.
Chad is pacing back and forth.

                    ALLISON
          Chad, you were wrong. You were
          wrong about everything.

                    CHAD
          No. You're wrong Allison. There's
          a war going on and if you're not
          with me, you're against me.

                    ALLISON
          But, there doesn't have to be--

                    CHAD
          It's not just for us, it's for our
          children.
                                                           90.



Chad runs his knife down the side of Allison's face.

                    ALLISON
          Our children?

                    CHAD
          We need to make this world a safer
          place. So that we don't have to
          worry about them wandering in the
          woods by themselves.

Chad presses the knife up against Allison's throat.

                    ALLISON
          You're crazy.

                    CHAD
          You've betrayed me, you fucking
          whore. Now, I'm willing to forgive
          you, but you're gonna have to beg.

Chad pushes himself against her, kissing her on the mouth.
Allison BITES HIS LIP and KICKS HIM IN THE BALLS. Chad keels
over as Allison fights to untie herself.

Chad slowly stands, walks up to her and punches her in the
face. She tries to run but he grabs her and throws her on
top of a LOG. He works to tie her down as she fights.

EXT. TOOL SHED - NIGHT

A two by four SLAMS into a LOCK, breaking it free. Dale
slides the door of the shed open and flicks a switch. The
florescent lights flicker, revealing...

A shed filled with tools. CHAIN SAWS, TREE CLIMBING BOOTS,
BODY PROTECTORS, and all sorts of LOGGING TOOLS.

Dale steps inside and looks in awe at all the equipment.

                    DALE
          You think I'm a hillbilly killer...
          I'll show you hillbilly killer!

QUICK MONTAGE

Dale straps metal gloves onto his hands.

He pulls some kind of chest protector over his chest, and
puts protective chain mail pants on.

He jams on tree climbing boots, with spikes on the bottom.
                                                        91.



He walks along the row of chain saws. Small, medium, large,
extra large... fucking huge. He picks that one.

EXT. TOOL SHED - MOMENTS LATER

Dale steps from the shed looking like one crazy motherfucker.

                    DALE
          Game on, motherfucker!

Dale yanks the cable on the chain saw and it roars to life.

INT. LUMBER MILL - NIGHT

Chad finishes tying Allison to a HUGE LOG on a CONVEYOR BELT.
The Conveyor belt feeds into a 5' CIRCULAR SAW.

                    ALLISON
          What are you doing?

                    CHAD
          I'm saving you from yourself.

Chad reaches for A SWITCH. Suddenly, the lights to the
Lumber Mill flicker on. The place begins to hum with energy.

                      CHAD
          Oh, good.    Loverboy's here.

He looks out across the mill floor. Only a few of the lights
work, casting shafts of light into the darkness. Broken and
abandoned machinery crowd the floor. Stacks of old, rotting
lumber create a labyrinth.

                    CHAD
          Goodbye Allison.

CHAD FLIPS THE SWITCH and the circular saw begins cutting
through the woods and the conveyor belt feeds into it.

                     CHAD
              (calling out)
          Hey Hillbilly! I got your girl
          over here!

Chad runs away as Allison works to try and undo the knot.

A SILHOUETTE of a figure steps out of the smoke... The figure
is decked out with A CHEST PROTECTOR, PROTECTIVE CHAIN MAIL
PANTS ON HIS LEGS AND HANDS, AND A FACE SHIELD OVER HIS FACE.
The figure is carrying a LARGE CHAINSAW.
                                                          92.



ALLISON SCREAMS.   Dale pulls up his face shield.

                    DALE
          It's okay, Allie.     It's just me.

                      ALLISON
          Dale?    What are you wearing?

                    DALE
          I thought it might look kinda
          intimidating. Does it?

                      ALLISON
          Yeah.

                      DALE
          Cool.

                      ALLISON
          Uh, Dale?    Wanna help?

                      DALE
          Oh, yeah.

He runs over and starts untying her.    Allison looks up at
Dale as he works on the ropes.

                    ALLISON
          Thanks for coming back for me.

                    DALE
          It's nothin' really.    I was headin'
          over here anyway.

She smiles, as a voice booms out over the PA system.

                    CHAD (O.S.)
          Ahh, how sweet. The dim-witted
          hillbilly's trying to save the girl
          of his dreams.

Dale blushes and struggles with the ropes.

                    CHAD (O.S.)
          You think you're gonna win. But
          you're wrong. Your kind never win.
          That's why you live in trailers and
          screw your cousins.

                    DALE
              (to Allison)
          That's not true...
                    (MORE)
                                                           93.

                    DALE (CONT'D)
          Well, we made out once, but I was
          only thirteen. We were just
          experimenting.

                       ALLISON
          It's okay.     I understand.

                    CHAD (O.S.)
          Time to say goodbye to the girl.
          You shouldn't have betrayed me,
          Allison.

The log Allison is tied to shifts. Dale suddenly realizes
it's on a conveyer belt and it's moving right for the
GIGANTIC SPINNING BLADE.

Wood particles fly as the blade cuts through the log.

                       ALLISON
          Dale!

                    DALE
              (re: the rope knot)
          Lets see, the rabbit comes out of
          the hole, goes pee, and--

                       ALLISON
          DALE!

Dale reaches down and grabs his chain saw, yanking the
starter cable. It roars to life.

The spinning blade begins to cut into the rope... then
there's a holler and Dale looks up to see:

Chad sliding toward him, hanging onto a pulley. Chad smashes
into Dale feet first, his chainsaw sputters across the floor.

                    CHAD
          Oh, that's really too bad. Are you
          okay? `Cause I didn't mean to--

Chad swings the blade of his scythe down at Dale's face.
Dale holds up his METAL MESH GLOVE and the blade cuts only
partly into it. Chad twists the blade deep into Dale's hand.

The huge blade spins toward Allison's head. She turns her
head to avoid it, her cheek inches away. She SCREAMS.

Dale kicks Chad in the ankle with his Metal spiked boot.
Chad falls backward. Dale scrambles toward Allison. He
reaches up and pulls at the ropes, just in time...
                                                           94.



But Chad grabs onto his boot and drags him back. He pulls
Dale to his feet and punches him in the stomach. Dale keels
over, and Chad follows through with a uppercut to his face.

Dale flies backwards into a wall of old tools. A BOX OF SAW
BLADES crash to the ground. Dale picks up one just as Chad
lifts him off his feet smashing him to the ground.

                     ALLISON
          DALE!!

Dale backhands Chad, follows through with a jab to the face.
Chad flies backwards, and Dale looks up at Allison proudly.

The SAW BLADE is tearing at the clothing on her shoulder.
She looks up at Dale, knowing she's going to die.

Not much chance, but it's his only hope. Dale tosses the
circular blade through the air. It spins wildly... THUNK!
It connects with the log, cutting the ropes in half...

Allison rolls to safety just as the log is torn in half.
Dale smiles, and looks down at his hands in awe.

Chad rises and grabs his Scythe.

                    CHAD
          It's time to die, hillbilly.

Chad spins the scythe around like an expert stick fighter.

Dale pulls the cable on his chain saw, firing it up, like an
expert gardener.

                    DALE
          I beg to differ, frat boy.

The two of them face off like fighters in a ring.

Allison climbs up onto a metal catwalk thirty feet off the
ground. She looks down at Dale and Chad fighting like two
jedi warriors, only with lumber tools.

Chad charges.   Dale lifts the saw, but it sputters and dies.

                     DALE
          Uh-oh.

He tosses the useless weapon at Chad and runs.   Chad dodges
it and chases after him.
                                                          95.



Dale darts between the old machinery. He rounds a corner and
his steel boots lose traction. He goes sliding across the
floor like a baseball player sliding into home base.

A moment later, Chad rounds the corner.

But Dale is gone.

INT. LUMBER MILL - MOMENTS LATER

Allison crawls along the catwalk. Looking around, she spots
Dale crawling across the floor, hiding from Chad.

Allison looks for a way to get his attention.

INT. LUMBER MILL - CONTINUOUS

Dale hides behind a large water drum.   He can't see Chad, but
he can hear him walking around.

                    CHAD (O.S.)
          Come out, come out wherever you
          are.

Something hits Dale in the side of the head.

                    DALE
          Ow!

He looks about, then up.   BAM!   A large bolt hits him right
between the eyes.

Dale rubs his head, looks up to the catwalk, spots Allison.
She points to a staircase that leads to the catwalk and to a
DOOR on the second story.

Dale nods and quietly makes his way to the stairs.

He cautiously looks about and begins to climb.

A hand shoots out from between the steps, grabbing Dale's
leg, sending him crashing down onto the metal stairs.

Chad peers at him from below the stairs.

                    CHAD
          I don't think so, hillbil--

Dale reaches between the steps and grabs Chad by the collar,
yanking him forward. Chad SLAMS against the metal stairs,
releasing Dale and dropping to the floor with a THUD.
                                                           96.



Dale scurries up the steps.

                    ALLISON
          Dale, this way!

Dale follows Allison in through the door.

INT. FOREMAN'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Allison and Dale slam the door behind them.

                    DALE
          Jesus, that kid's tough.   Are you
          okay?

                     ALLISON
          Yeah.   Move that table over here!

Dale and Allison wedge the planning table against the door.
They survey their surroundings for some way to escape.

The foreman's office is covered in a thick layer of dirt.
Cobwebs hang about the room. The place is still cluttered
with the daily objects of the foreman's job. It looks like
someone just up and left one day and never returned.

                    ALLISON
          It's been awhile since anyone's
          been in here, huh?

Dale notes a wall calender from 1987.

                    DALE
          Twenty three years ago.

Allison finds a phone. She picks it up.     It's dead.   Dale
looks at her like she's an idiot.

                    ALLISON
          I had to check.

Dale searches through the drawers of the desk. He grabs a
pen, brandishes it like a weapon and then tosses it.

                    ALLISON
          Watch it, Dale!

                    DALE
          Sorry. We've got to find some kind
          of weapon. Preferably big and
          sharp.
                                                         97.



Allison opens a filing cabinet and notices a LARGE STACK OF
OLD NEWSPAPERS. She reaches down and picks one up. The
headline reads, "MEMORIAL DAY MURDERER FOUND". Allison sits
and starts going through the newspapers.

Dale picks up an old WHIFFLE BALL BAT.

                    DALE
          Maybe this will do...

He slams the bat against the table.   It crumples in half.

                       DALE
          Guess not.

Dale continues searching through a cabinet. There are still
a bunch of old snack boxes and cans of tuna. He sees A LARGE
YELLOW BOX OF TEA. He looks at it for a moment.

                    ALLISON
              (re: the picture)
          Oh my God. Dale? Come take a look
          at this.

Dale walks to Allison and looks at the OLD NEWSPAPER ARTICLE.

                    ALLISON
          Something look familiar?

Dale sets the tea box down and glances at the picture: A
HILLBILLY is cuffed and being pushed into the back of a
police car. He is facing the camera, his face a mask of
rage. An eerie cabin looms in the background.

                    DALE
          Hey, that's Tucker's cabin.

                    ALLISON
          Yeah, and it says here. Single
          survivor leads police to the
          memorial day killer. The survivor
          is reported to have been tortured
          and raped. She is now undergoing
          psychiatric evaluation.

                    DALE
          Wow. That's just like that story
          that he made up--

                    ALLISON
          What if he didn't make it up?
                                                          98.



                    DALE
          Well, then I guess I'd feel pretty
          sorry for him. Poor kid probably
          didn't have much of an upbringing
          and--

                    ALLISON
          What did Chad say about his father?

                    DALE
          Oh yeah. His Dad didn't really
          come around too much and he felt--

                    ALLISON
          No... the other stuff.

                    DALE
          Oh you mean about him being
          massacred and his body never being
          found?

                    ALLISON
          Now, look at the picture...

Dale takes a good look. Same build. Same color hair. Same
oversized teeth. THE HILLBILLY IS A SPITTING IMAGE OF CHAD!

                    DALE
          Hah. That kind of looks like
          psycho-boy out there. That's
          funny.

He smiles, but then his smile fades as he looks at Allison.
She's not laughing.

Dale glances up at Allison, then back at the picture.

                    DALE
          Holee shit. You mean that--

BAM! The door is kicked open, the table flies backwards.
Chad stumbles through, the wicked blade of the brush clearing
scythe glints in the moonlight.

                    CHAD
          Time to die, freak!

                    ALLISON
          Chad...

Chad rushes at Dale, raising the scythe above his head.
                                                         99.



                     DALE
          Wait!

Chad hesitates for a split second.

                    DALE
          You're a hillbilly too!

Chad stops, enraged by the remark.

                     CHAD
          Shut up!

He raises the blade again, about to strike.

                     DALE
          Look!

Dale cringes beneath the blade, raising the picture in front
of him for protection.

Chad freezes, staring at the photo.   His eyes focus on the
image of the Hillbilly.

                    DALE
          That's your real father there.

                     CHAD
          No!

                     ALLISON
          It's true, Chad. You're half
          hillbilly.

Chad sweeps the photo out of Dale's hands.

                    CHAD
          It can't be!!!

He falters. For a moment, the evil seems to drain out of
him. Dale and Allison exchange a look.

                    CHAD
              (enraged)
          They lied to me... How could they?

                     ALLISON
          Maybe they were afraid to tell you
          the truth.

                    CHAD
          Everything is a lie.   There is no
          truth!
                                                         100.



Chad screams like a kamakazi as he rushes at Dale, raising
the Scythe over his head.

Dale reacts, grabs THE BOX OF TEA, quickly tosses the
contents into Chad's face.

Chad stops mid swing... choking, gasping for air.   He slumps
to the ground and falls onto his side.

                    CHAD
          I... can't breathe... I can't...

He shudders and convulses as he fights for air. He stumbles
backwards, out the door, still fighting for air.

Allison and Dale follow him.

                    ALLISON
          What'd you do?

Dale holds up the tea box.    The label reads "Loose Unfiltered
Chamomile Tea."

                    DALE
          Anthemis nobilis...

                    ALLISON
          Huh?

                     DALE
          It's the ingredient in chamomile
          tea that can cause an anaphylactic
          reaction in rare cases where people
          who are allergic to it.
              (off Allison's look)
          Like I said, I remember weird stuff
          sometimes.

They look to Chad, GASPING for air.

                    DALE
          But he'll be okay as long as we get
          him his inhaler.

Chad steps backward and accidentally tumbles over the
railing, falling 25' to the concrete below. The two of them
peer over the edge at Chad.

                    DALE
          Or not.

Chad lies motionless.
                                                       101.



EXT. LUMBER MILL - DAY

The multi-colored lights of police sirens flash as A
NEWSWOMAN stands in front of a camera. Emergency response
crews move about in the background.

                    NEWSWOMAN
              (into camera)
          The chaos and confusion of what
          transpired here last night is still
          being unraveled. What appears to
          be a tragic mass suicide involving
          a group of mentally unstable
          college kids may actually be the
          work of a lone deranged killer
          whose body is yet to be found.

Panning off the television, to reveal...

INT. RECOVERY ROOM - DAY

Tucker is lying in a hospital bed watching the news report.
He has bandages all over his body.

Dale walks into the room.

                    DALE
          Hey, buddy. How you feeling?

                    TUCKER
          Well, all things considered I'm
          doin' okay. They stitched me up
          right as rain... Check it out.
              (holds up his hand)
          I got my fingers back.

His fingers have been sewn back on, but one of them looks a
little different than the rest. It has red nail-polish on
the nail and looks a lot like a girl's finger.

                    TUCKER
          I don't remember one of `em looking
          like that though. Does it look
          funny?

Dale looks at the creepy, mismatched finger.

                     DALE
          No. Not at all... I brought you
          somethin'.
                                                       102.



Dale lifts a Miller Hi-life 40 oz. that he was hiding beneath
his shirt. It has a big bow on it.

                    TUCKER
          The champagne of beers.   Look at
          it, it's beautiful.

Tucker takes it in his hands.

                    TUCKER
          Listen, Dale... I'm sorry I ain't
          gonna be able to make the bowlin'
          tournament.

                    DALE
          That's alright. You take your time
          healin' and maybe we'll have a shot
          at it next year.

                    TUCKER
          Maybe you could get somebody else
          to play for me?

                    DALE
          Nobody could replace you, Tucker.

                    TUCKER
          Thanks, buddy.

                    DALE
          Anyway, I guess I'd better get
          going.

Dale turns to head out--

                    TUCKER
          Hey, Dale... did you ask her?

                    DALE
          Ask her what?

                    TUCKER
          Ask her out for God's sake?

                    DALE
          Uh, Well, I was gonna, but she left
          before I got the chance.

                     TUCKER
          Oh, Dale. You're hopeless, you
          know that?
                                                       103.



                    DALE
          Yeah... you might be right.

Dale looks up and smiles at Tucker--

                    DALE
          Except, she kinda mentioned she was
          a pretty good bowler, and--

                    TUCKER
          Hey, I thought you said nobody
          could replace me?

                    DALE
          Actually, I was just sayin' that to
          make you feel better.

Tucker looks mad and then starts to smile.

                    TUCKER
          You dog you...

INT. BOWLING ALLEY - DAY

A bowling ball rolls down the alley, knocking all the pins
over. A perfect strike!

Allison turns and cheers as SEVERAL HILLBILLIES watch her,
jaws dropped open.

                    ALLISON
          Another one! Whoo.   Must be
          beginner's luck.

A BALD HILLBILLY with massive sideburns and missing teeth
looks to Dale.

                    BALD HILLBILLY
          Dale Dobson. You are one lucky
          man. That girl's got a perfect set
          of... bowlin' fingers.

                    DALE
          Life's short and you gotta go after
          what you want, B.J. You can't just
          wait for things to fall in your
          lap.

B.J. looks over at a HOT GROUP OF COLLEGE GIRLS bowling on
another lane.
                                                        104.



                    BALD HILLBILLY
          You know somethin'? You're right,
          Dale. I'm gonna go talk to her.

                    DALE
          Don't be nervous.      Just be
          yourself.

Allison plops down in the seat next to Dale.   She grabs her
beer and takes a long chug off it.

                    DALE
          Listen Ally. I know we've been
          through a lot together and this
          might seem kind of forward. But I
          got you a little somethin'.

He hands her a box.

                     ALLISON
          Oh.   You shouldn't have.

She opens it.   It's a WRESTLERS HELMET.

                     ALLISON
          Dale.   That's so nice of you.

She clips it around her head.

                    DALE
          I figure if we were gonna hang out
          together it might be a good idea
          for you to keep that on.

                    ALLISON
          Thanks, Dale...

She leans in and they are just about to kiss when they're
interrupted by a SCREAM. They turn to see:

The girl running away from BJ. She slams into a bowling ball
cart and falls down unconscious. Her friends swarm to help.

                    DALE
          I guess it takes some practice.

                       ALLISON
          What does?

Dale hesitates, then makes his move.

                       DALE
          This...
                                                          105.



He kisses Allison, the best kiss of both their lives.

                                               SMASH CUT TO:

INT. LUMBER MILL - NIGHT

A camera light follows the NEWSWOMAN through the lumber mill.

                    CAMERAMAN
          Are you sure we should be doing
          this? It's still a crime scene.

                    NEWSWOMAN
          Sack up, Billy. It's called
          investigative journalism for a
          reason.

                    CAMERAMAN
          But don't we need like a permit or
          a press pass or something?

                    NEWSWOMAN
          Press pass this.

She flips off the camera as she pushes through the broken
door of the foreman's office.

INT. FOREMAN'S OFFICE - NIGHT

The place is still in disarray from the fight.

                    NEWSWOMAN
          The police missed something, I can
          feel it. I'm gonna crack this
          thing wide open. What do you say,
          Billy, won't a Peabody Award like
          nice on your--

A figure suddenly jumps out from a shadow.   A SCYTHE comes
down on the Newswoman's head...

The camera jostles as the cameraman turns to run, but tumbles
over the railing, smashes to the ground.

The camera is still rolling as Chad appears, and looks
directly into the lens before hurling it at the wall...

                                      SMASH CUT TO BLACK.



                    THE END




Tucker and Dale vs Evil
Writers :   Eli Craig  Morgan Jurgenson
Genres :   Comedy  Horror
User Comments








